"The hosts had been bowled out for 148 in the first innings and were under immense pressure in the second innings after being set a target of 506. All of this didn’t seem to matter to Babar, who played an all-time great knock," the report added. 
Azam had come in to bat when the team was reeling at 21 for 2. He had formed an incredible 228-run partnership for the third wicket with Abdullah Shafique but did not flinch even when the young’un departed a few short of his century.
The skipper was closing in on his first-ever double century when he fell prey to Nathan Lyon. In all, he had scored 196 off 425 balls, hit 21 boundaries and a solitary six.
“It was a team effort, as others chipped in with useful contributions too," the Pakistan captain had said after the match. “We tried to be positive and play our shots. The team needed this knock, so I tried to bat for as long as I could.”
His score was so impressive that even foreign media figures — including those from neighbouring India — couldn't help but wax lyrical about him.

the team needed this knock, so i tried to bat for as long as i could.”
his score was so impressive that even foreign media figures — including those from neighbouring india — couldn't help but wax lyrical about him. “we tried to be positive and play our shots. azam had come in to bat when the team was reeling at 21 for 2. he had formed an incredible 228-run partnership for the third wicket with abdullah shafique but did not flinch even when the young’un departed a few short of his century. "the hosts had been bowled out for 148 in the first innings and were under immense pressure in the second innings after being set a target of 506. all of this didn’t seem to matter to babar, who played an all-time great knock," the report added. “it was a team effort, as others chipped in with useful contributions too," the pakistan captain had said after the match.


LAHORE: Pakistan’s marathon batting defence in the drawn second Test against Australia has raised the hopes of head coach Saqlain Mushtaq ahead of the series decider which starts on Monday in Lahore. 
“Defending over 1,000 balls was something very special,” Saqlain said on Friday. “Lots of people were thinking it was impossible, but all the players and support staff in the dressing room had a firm belief that we are not going to give this game to Australia.” 
Australia were clear favourites to go 1-0 up in the three-match series after setting Pakistan a huge target of 506 in a minimum 172 overs at Karachi’s National Stadium under hot conditions. 
But Pakistan captain Babar Azam played an epic knock of 196 off 425 balls in more than 10 hours while Abdullah Shafique (96) and Mohammad Rizwan (104 not out) also batted for long periods to deny Australia victory. Pakistan finished at 443-7, falling short by 63 runs in what would have been a world record chase. 
“It will be unfair if I single out one player who stood out,” Saqlain said. “The whole team needs to be praised for showing such a character against the world No. 1 team, here on the back of a 4-0 Ashes win at home.” 
Australia had dominated for three days at Karachi with the reverse swing of Mitchell Starc. Pakistan were bowled out for 148 and conceded a massive 408-run first innings lead after the visitors had declared at 556-9. 
Babar stood firm against the pace of Starc and Pat Cummins in the second innings and also kept the two spinners — Nathan Lyon and debutant leg-spinner Mitchell Swepson — at bay for more than five sessions of impeccable and patient batting.
Babar shared a double-century stand with Shafique and then his century partnership with Rizwan took the game deep into the last session. 
Despite losing Babar with 12 overs remaining, Rizwan saw off the tricky spin of Lyon and Swepson with tailender Nauman Ali remaining unbeaten on 0 while confidently facing 18 balls. Rizwan later called Nauman’s scoreless innings as good as his century. 
“It [Rizwan’s comments] sums up the feelings of the entire team,” Saqlain said. “The aim was to fight for the team.” 
Australias first tour to Pakistan since 1998 started off with a tame drawn first Test at Rawalpindi where the Pindi Cricket Stadium was rated as below average by the ICC. 
Saqlain said the epic draw had increased the confidence of Pakistan to surprise Australia. 
“Before this series our mission was to beat Australia and win the series,” Saqlain said. “It’s not that we are just saying it, we will try our best and produce a result in our favour in Lahore.” 
Australia coach Andrew McDonald, meanwhile, dismissed concerns over the team’s failure to win test matches from dominant positions after Pat Cummins’ side were frustrated in the Karachi draw. 
They have now tallied five such failures to bowl out teams on day five for victory in their last 19 Tests. 
Interim head coach McDonald said Australia had failed to take their chances in Karachi but had at least managed to create them. 
“We’ve had good confirmation that the style of cricket we want to play is going to hold up,” he told reporters. “But if you put yourself in those [winning] situations continually, we’ll find a way through them. 
“There were missed opportunities on that final day but we gave ourselves a real good look at it, and that’s what I’m really proud of.” 
McDonald said morale was high in the Australian camp as the deadlocked series heads to the final match in Lahore, which hosts its first Test since 2009. 
McDonald praised Swepson’s debut in Karachi but said selectors would look at the Lahore surface before deciding whether the leg-spinner would get another chance to bowl with regular spinner Lyon. 
Swepson took two wickets in the first innings but finished with unflattering match figures of 2-188 after several chances went begging off his bowling in the second innings. 
Published in Dawn, March 19th, 2022

“before this series our mission was to beat australia and win the series,” saqlain said. saqlain said the epic draw had increased the confidence of pakistan to surprise australia. rizwan later called nauman’s scoreless innings as good as his century. “it [rizwan’s comments] sums up the feelings of the entire team,” saqlain said. lahore: pakistan’s marathon batting defence in the drawn second test against australia has raised the hopes of head coach saqlain mushtaq ahead of the series decider which starts on monday in lahore. interim head coach mcdonald said australia had failed to take their chances in karachi but had at least managed to create them. “defending over 1,000 balls was something very special,” saqlain said on friday. swepson took two wickets in the first innings but finished with unflattering match figures of 2-188 after several chances went begging off his bowling in the second innings. “there were missed opportunities on that final day but we gave ourselves a real good look at it, and that’s what i’m really proud of.” 
mcdonald said morale was high in the australian camp as the deadlocked series heads to the final match in lahore, which hosts its first test since 2009. 
mcdonald praised swepson’s debut in karachi but said selectors would look at the lahore surface before deciding whether the leg-spinner would get another chance to bowl with regular spinner lyon. babar shared a double-century stand with shafique and then his century partnership with rizwan took the game deep into the last session. despite losing babar with 12 overs remaining, rizwan saw off the tricky spin of lyon and swepson with tailender nauman ali remaining unbeaten on 0 while confidently facing 18 balls. 1 team, here on the back of a 4-0 ashes win at home.” 
australia had dominated for three days at karachi with the reverse swing of mitchell starc. “it will be unfair if i single out one player who stood out,” saqlain said. pakistan were bowled out for 148 and conceded a massive 408-run first innings lead after the visitors had declared at 556-9. 
babar stood firm against the pace of starc and pat cummins in the second innings and also kept the two spinners — nathan lyon and debutant leg-spinner mitchell swepson — at bay for more than five sessions of impeccable and patient batting. but pakistan captain babar azam played an epic knock of 196 off 425 balls in more than 10 hours while abdullah shafique (96) and mohammad rizwan (104 not out) also batted for long periods to deny australia victory.


BRIDGETOWN: Ben Stokes was again in the thick of the action as England plucked out two more West Indies wickets and could have had a third with the home side reaching lunch at 114 for three in their first innings on the third day of the second Test at Kensington Oval in Barbados on Friday. 
After the talismanic all-rounder’s entertaining 120 helped lift the tourists to a first innings total of 507 for nine declared on day two, Stokes claimed the important wicket of Nkrumah Bonner in the morning session and would have also accounted for Jermaine Blackwood had England opted for a review of a not out umpire’s verdict to an lbw appeal. 
Struggling to cope with the late inswing of England’s seamers, Blackwood survived to the interval on seven while at the other end, West Indies captain Kraigg Brathwaite looked far more composed at 44 not out. 
Brathwaite had started the day in partnership with Shamarh Brooks with the home side at 71 for one. 
However he lost his fellow Barbadian after half-hour’s play when Brooks, on 39, attempted a cut at off spinner Jack Leach and Chris Woakes held the catch at backward-point. 
Bonner, Man of the Match in the first Test when his patient first innings hundred and defiant second innings contribution ensured a draw in Antigua, fell to Stokes for just nine, adjudged leg-before. 
Blackwood would have also been an lbw victim to Stokes before he had scored when trapped on the back foot by a full-length delivery. 
While the decision by the umpire on the field was not out, and even the bowler’s reaction suggested that he believed the ball would have missed the stumps, television replays showed the ball hitting leg-stump. 
Had England captain Joe Root opted to review the decision, it would have been overturned in favour of the visitors. 
Blackwood later survived another close lbw decision and was no doubt happy to see lunch roll around. 
It was a real captain’s innings by Brathwaite, who took few unnecessary risks and scored only 16 runs in the morning session, painfully slow progress but exactly what was required under the circumstances.
On Thursday, Stokes followed captain Joe Root with a century before West Indies opener John Campbell gave Matthew Fisher a wicket with the second ball of his Test career. Root improved from 119 overnight to 153, but played second fiddle to Stokes, who dominated their stand of 129 as he bludgeoned six sixes and 11 fours in his 128-ball knock.
Scoreboard
ENGLAND (1st innings):
A. Lees lbw Permaul 30
Z. Crawley c da Silva b Seales  0
J. Root lbw Roach   153
D. Lawrence c Brathwaite b Holder   91
B. Stokes c Brooks b Brathwaite 120
J. Bairstow c Bonner b Joseph   20
B. Foakes st Foakes b Permaul   33
C. Woakes c Seales b Roach  41
M. Fisher not out   0
J. Leach st da Silva b Permaul  4
EXTRAS (B-5, LB-6, NB-3, W-1)   15
TOTAL (for nine wkts decl, 150.5 overs) 507
FALL OF WICKETS: 1-4 (Crawley), 2-80 (Lees), 3-244 (Lawrence), 4-373 (Root), 5-410 (Bairstow), 6-424 (Stokes), 7-499 (Foakes), 8-503 (Woakes), 9-507 (Leach).
DID NOT BAT: Saqib Mahmood.
BOWLING: Roach 27-5-68-2, Seales 24-4-55-1 (1w), Joseph 23-1-109-1 (2nb), Permaul 35.5-1-126-3, Holder 28-4-76-1, Bonner 1-0-3-0, Brathwaite 12-0-59-1.
WEST INDIES (1st innings; overnight 71-1):
K. Brathwaite not out   44
J. Campbell c Foakes b Fisher   4
S. Brooks c Woakes b Leach  39
N. Bonner lbw b Stokes  9
J. Blackwood not out    7
EXTRAS (B-6, LB-2, NB-3)    11
TOTAL (for three wickets, 54 overs) 114
FALL OF WICKETS: 1-14 (Campbell), 2-83 (Brooks), 3-101 (Bonner)
TO BAT: J. Holder, J. Da Silva, A. Joseph, K. Roach, V. Permaul, J. Seales 
BOWLING: Woakes 9-6-24-0, Fisher 9-2-20-1, Leach 18-7-41-1, Stokes 9-4-11-1 (1nb), Saqib 8-3-7-0 (2nb), Lawrence 1-0-3-0.
Published in Dawn, March 19th, 2022

scoreboard
england (1st innings):
a. lees lbw permaul 30
z. crawley c da silva b seales  0
j. root lbw roach   153
d. lawrence c brathwaite b holder   91
b. stokes c brooks b brathwaite 120
j. bairstow c bonner b joseph   20
b. foakes st foakes b permaul   33
c. woakes c seales b roach  41
m. fisher not out   0
j. leach st da silva b permaul  4
extras (b-5, lb-6, nb-3, w-1)   15
total (for nine wkts decl, 150.5 overs) 507
fall of wickets: 1-4 (crawley), 2-80 (lees), 3-244 (lawrence), 4-373 (root), 5-410 (bairstow), 6-424 (stokes), 7-499 (foakes), 8-503 (woakes), 9-507 (leach). bowling: roach 27-5-68-2, seales 24-4-55-1 (1w), joseph 23-1-109-1 (2nb), permaul 35.5-1-126-3, holder 28-4-76-1, bonner 1-0-3-0, brathwaite 12-0-59-1.
west indies (1st innings; overnight 71-1):
k. brathwaite not out   44
j. campbell c foakes b fisher   4
s. brooks c woakes b leach  39
n. bonner lbw b stokes  9
j. blackwood not out    7
extras (b-6, lb-2, nb-3)    11
total (for three wickets, 54 overs) 114
fall of wickets: 1-14 (campbell), 2-83 (brooks), 3-101 (bonner)
to bat: j. holder, j. da silva, a. joseph, k. roach, v. permaul, j. seales 
bowling: woakes 9-6-24-0, fisher 9-2-20-1, leach 18-7-41-1, stokes 9-4-11-1 (1nb), saqib 8-3-7-0 (2nb), lawrence 1-0-3-0.
published in dawn, march 19th, 2022 on thursday, stokes followed captain joe root with a century before west indies opener john campbell gave matthew fisher a wicket with the second ball of his test career. had england captain joe root opted to review the decision, it would have been overturned in favour of the visitors. bonner, man of the match in the first test when his patient first innings hundred and defiant second innings contribution ensured a draw in antigua, fell to stokes for just nine, adjudged leg-before. after the talismanic all-rounder’s entertaining 120 helped lift the tourists to a first innings total of 507 for nine declared on day two, stokes claimed the important wicket of nkrumah bonner in the morning session and would have also accounted for jermaine blackwood had england opted for a review of a not out umpire’s verdict to an lbw appeal. bridgetown: ben stokes was again in the thick of the action as england plucked out two more west indies wickets and could have had a third with the home side reaching lunch at 114 for three in their first innings on the third day of the second test at kensington oval in barbados on friday. blackwood would have also been an lbw victim to stokes before he had scored when trapped on the back foot by a full-length delivery. blackwood later survived another close lbw decision and was no doubt happy to see lunch roll around. brathwaite had started the day in partnership with shamarh brooks with the home side at 71 for one.


LAUSANNE: Russia’s hopes of competing at the 2022 World Cup were effectively ended after the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) rejected a request from the Russian Football Union to freeze FIFA’s suspension while their appeal is heard.
CAS said in a statement on Friday that the suspension of all Russian teams and clubs from FIFA’s competitions would therefore remain in force.
The decision effectively prevents Russia from taking part in World Cup qualifying playoffs, scheduled later this month, as no CAS hearing has yet been fixed.
Football governing bodies FIFA and UEFA had decided together that all Russian teams, whether national or club sides, be suspended from participation in FIFA and UEFA competitions until further notice after Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
“The CAS arbitration proceedings continue. A panel of arbitrators is currently being constituted and the parties are exchanging written submissions,” the CAS said in a statement.
Russia were scheduled to host Poland in a World Cup qualifying playoff on March 24.
FIFA said earlier this month that Poland would be given a bye to the final of their path in the playoffs on March 29, when they will play either Sweden or the Czech Republic.
The Polish FA had said that they would refuse to play against the Russian team. The Czech Republic and Sweden, who are in the same playoff path, had also ruled out facing Russia.
All three associations sent out a joint statement last month saying they would refuse to play regardless of what FIFA decided.
The World Cup will be held in Qatar from November.
Earlier this week, the CAS also upheld UEFA’s ban on Russian teams taking part in its competitions for the duration of its proceedings.
The decision meant that Spartak Moscow could not play their Europa League match against RB Leipzig, allowing the German club to advance to the quarter-finals.
Published in Dawn, March 19th, 2022

“the cas arbitration proceedings continue. cas said in a statement on friday that the suspension of all russian teams and clubs from fifa’s competitions would therefore remain in force. the decision effectively prevents russia from taking part in world cup qualifying playoffs, scheduled later this month, as no cas hearing has yet been fixed. russia were scheduled to host poland in a world cup qualifying playoff on march 24.
fifa said earlier this month that poland would be given a bye to the final of their path in the playoffs on march 29, when they will play either sweden or the czech republic. earlier this week, the cas also upheld uefa’s ban on russian teams taking part in its competitions for the duration of its proceedings. the polish fa had said that they would refuse to play against the russian team. all three associations sent out a joint statement last month saying they would refuse to play regardless of what fifa decided. football governing bodies fifa and uefa had decided together that all russian teams, whether national or club sides, be suspended from participation in fifa and uefa competitions until further notice after russia’s invasion of ukraine. lausanne: russia’s hopes of competing at the 2022 world cup were effectively ended after the court of arbitration for sport (cas) rejected a request from the russian football union to freeze fifa’s suspension while their appeal is heard.


NYON: As the club move closer to replacing their Russian ownership, European champions Chelsea were drawn on Friday to play record 13-time winner Real Madrid in the Champions League quarter-finals. 
The first pairing drawn at UEFA headquarters sent Real coach Carlo Ancelotti back to the London club where he won a league and cup double a year before being fired by then-owner Roman Abramovich. 
“Ancelotti is a fantastic coach,” Real director Emilio Butragueo said of the Italian, who led the team to their 10th European title during his first spell with the club. “He knows how to manage every detail to get the most out of the players.”
Abramovich, a Russian billionaire with ties to Vladimir Putin, gave up control of the club before having his assets in Britain frozen this month in the wake of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. On Friday, prospective new owners of Chelsea were meeting a deadline to submit bids. 
As things stand, Thomas Tuchel’s team Chelsea will not have any fans at either leg after UEFA said it would uphold EU sanctions against Abramovich. 
“The challenge cannot be higher,” Tuchel told reporters on Friday. “In general I think this game changes so much with spectators so hopefully we find a solution and I’m pretty sure everyone at the club, the board, will fight for a chance. Hopefully we make it happen somehow.” 
All three English clubs avoided each other in the draw, as did all three Spanish teams. 
Manchester City and Atletico Madrid were the next teams paired, while Liverpool were drawn to face Benfica and Bayern Munich will play Villarreal. 
Liverpool manager Juergen Klopp played down talk that his side had got the soft option in Benfica. 
“I know people will say we are the favourites and stuff like this, but that’s already the first mistake you could make,” he said on Friday. “We are too long in the business now to make these kinds of mistakes.”
CITY PLAY ATLETICO
The City-Atletico pairing sets up a stark contrast of playing styles under long-time coaches Pep Guardiola and Diego Simeone both seeking a first European title for their clubs. 
It also gives Atletico a quick return to the city where this week they eliminated Manchester United with a 1-0 victory typical of the defensive solidity Simeone builds into his team. 
“We have to be clever, we know they will have the chances to score,” Guardiola said on Friday. “We go to a nice stadium, incredible stadium and we go to try and reach the semi-final, hopefully they are worried to play against us.” 
The draw included five former champions and five clubs who were involved in the failed Super League project last April. 
Villarreal are an exception in both categories, the only team left in the draw that has never reached the final. 
In the semi-finals, City or Atletico will play Chelsea or Real, and Benfica or Liverpool will face Villarreal or Bayern. 
The first legs of the quarter-finals will be played on April 5 or 6, with the return games the following week. The semi-finals will be played between April 26 and May 4. The final is scheduled for May 28 at Stade de France in the Paris suburbs. 
The Stade de France was a late replacement for original host St Petersburg. UEFA stripped the Russian football federation of the right to host the final after the invasion of Ukraine. 
Russia’s last remaining club in European competitions, Spartak Moscow, was removed by UEFA from the Europa League, leaving RB Leipzig to get a bye into the quarter-finals. 
Leipzig were paired with Atalanta on Friday, while Bundesliga rivals Eintracht Frankfurt was drawn to face Barcelona. 
Barca are playing in the second-tier competition for the first time since 2004, following 17 straight seasons in the knockout rounds of the Champions League when it had Lionel Messi in the squad. 
Also, West Ham United will face Olympique Lyonnais and Braga will take on Rangers. 
The final will be played at the Ramon Sanchez Pizjuan stadium in Seville on May 18. 
There were three former European champions in the draw for the third-tier Europa Conference League in its debut. Feyenoord will face Slavia Prague, PSV Eindhoven will take on Leicester City, and Olympique de Marseille will play PAOK Thessaloniki. 
AS Roma, who are coached by Jose Mourinho, were drawn to face Bodo/Glimt, a Norwegian club which has reached the quarter-finals of a European tournament for the first time. 
The final of the new third-tier continental competition will be played in the Albanian capital, Tirana, on May 25.
Published in Dawn, March 19th, 2022

in the semi-finals, city or atletico will play chelsea or real, and benfica or liverpool will face villarreal or bayern. manchester city and atletico madrid were the next teams paired, while liverpool were drawn to face benfica and bayern munich will play villarreal. nyon: as the club move closer to replacing their russian ownership, european champions chelsea were drawn on friday to play record 13-time winner real madrid in the champions league quarter-finals. the final will be played at the ramon sanchez pizjuan stadium in seville on may 18. 
there were three former european champions in the draw for the third-tier europa conference league in its debut. “ancelotti is a fantastic coach,” real director emilio butragueo said of the italian, who led the team to their 10th european title during his first spell with the club. feyenoord will face slavia prague, psv eindhoven will take on leicester city, and olympique de marseille will play paok thessaloniki. the first pairing drawn at uefa headquarters sent real coach carlo ancelotti back to the london club where he won a league and cup double a year before being fired by then-owner roman abramovich. leipzig were paired with atalanta on friday, while bundesliga rivals eintracht frankfurt was drawn to face barcelona. as roma, who are coached by jose mourinho, were drawn to face bodo/glimt, a norwegian club which has reached the quarter-finals of a european tournament for the first time. russia’s last remaining club in european competitions, spartak moscow, was removed by uefa from the europa league, leaving rb leipzig to get a bye into the quarter-finals. the semi-finals will be played between april 26 and may 4. the final is scheduled for may 28 at stade de france in the paris suburbs. “we go to a nice stadium, incredible stadium and we go to try and reach the semi-final, hopefully they are worried to play against us.” 
the draw included five former champions and five clubs who were involved in the failed super league project last april. “we are too long in the business now to make these kinds of mistakes.”
city play atletico
the city-atletico pairing sets up a stark contrast of playing styles under long-time coaches pep guardiola and diego simeone both seeking a first european title for their clubs. uefa stripped the russian football federation of the right to host the final after the invasion of ukraine. hopefully we make it happen somehow.” 
all three english clubs avoided each other in the draw, as did all three spanish teams. also, west ham united will face olympique lyonnais and braga will take on rangers. the first legs of the quarter-finals will be played on april 5 or 6, with the return games the following week. villarreal are an exception in both categories, the only team left in the draw that has never reached the final.


Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed on Friday said that the limited over matches between Pakistan and Australia have been shifted to Lahore from Rawalpindi. 
Speaking to the media in Islamabad, he said, "The decision has been made that all four matches scheduled in Rawalpindi will now take place in Lahore."
The first Test match between the two sides was held in Rawalpindi from March 4 to 8 while the second one took place in Karachi from March 12 to 16. Australia — who are on their first tour to Pakistan in 24 years — are scheduled to play the third Test in Lahore from March 21 to 25.
They were also scheduled to play three One Day Internationals (ODIs) on March 29, 31 and April 2, and a Twenty20 International (T20I) on April 5, all of them in Rawalpindi.
There have been no serious threats directed at the team since their arrival last month, but several political rallies — both for and against the government — are planned in the nearby capital in the coming days and weeks.
Hundreds of thousands of people can descend on the capital during political rallies, choking traffic and causing security problems for officials.
Islamabad, where both teams were due to stay, is just a short drive away from the vastly bigger garrison city of Rawalpindi.
"The matches are being shifted to Lahore because of political activities in the capital," Rashid said.
An official with the Australian team said they had no issues with the change.
"In many ways, it suits both teams as it means one less movement for players and officials," he said.

"the matches are being shifted to lahore because of political activities in the capital," rashid said. interior minister sheikh rashid ahmed on friday said that the limited over matches between pakistan and australia have been shifted to lahore from rawalpindi. speaking to the media in islamabad, he said, "the decision has been made that all four matches scheduled in rawalpindi will now take place in lahore." the first test match between the two sides was held in rawalpindi from march 4 to 8 while the second one took place in karachi from march 12 to 16. australia — who are on their first tour to pakistan in 24 years — are scheduled to play the third test in lahore from march 21 to 25.
they were also scheduled to play three one day internationals (odis) on march 29, 31 and april 2, and a twenty20 international (t20i) on april 5, all of them in rawalpindi. "in many ways, it suits both teams as it means one less movement for players and officials," he said. hundreds of thousands of people can descend on the capital during political rallies, choking traffic and causing security problems for officials.


Sarfraz Nawaz, however, expected a bit more than the gigantic effort made by the hosts at the National Stadium where Pakistan overall have lost only two Tests out of 44 while recording 23 wins.
“They could’ve won it. I was surprised to see them getting excessively defensive in the last couple of hours [on the final day] on a wicket that did not have any demons. Moreover, with Pakistan gradually moving towards their target, Australia had gone into the defensive mode and that was point the batters should have taken the initiative,” the 73-year-old emphasized.
On why Pakistan in the first place let Pat Cummins-led Australia post a huge 556 at the National Stadium, Sarfraz said the home team missed a quality leg-spinner.
“On a dry pitch under hot weather, like the one in Karachi, a genuine leg-spinner is very effective, which Pakistan have missed in the current series. The selectors should have tried Yasir Shah [reserve] or Zahid Mahmood [part of squad]. Had there been a leg-spinner in the Pakistan squad the story of the Karachi Test could have been different,” he reckoned.
“Even now if Pakistan include a leg-spinner for the third Test in Lahore, that can definitely help our cause as Australia’s middle-order doesn’t look that strong and can be pierced.”
Sarfraz said Pakistan could have the upper hand in Lahore.
“With an appropriate playing XI, Pakistan can control the proceedings in Lahore,” the former right-arm pacer said.
Former Pakistan captain Asif Iqbal, meanwhile, termed Pakistan’s effort the “greatest fightback in the history of Pakistan cricket”.
“And I think this effort is also among the top two or three in the history of cricketing world.”
Asif, 78, explained the reason for labelling the Test as the “greatest fightback”.
“The 1957 Test against a ferocious bowling attack of West Indies in Bridgetown remains Pakistan’s greatest-ever comeback in Test cricket, courtesy great Hanif Mohammad’s marathon 337. However, considering modern-day cricket is all about power-hitting and tall scores, with batters expected to play aggressive strokes, forcing a draw in a contemporary Test while chasing a gigantic 500-plus [against a world-class team like Australia] is an exceptional performance.
“What magnificent batting by Abdullah, Babar and then Rizwan. It was awesome, amazing performance.
“Head coach Saqlain Mushtaq also duly deserves credit for this monumental effort. His influence on the players’ on-field performance in the dressing room is showing,” Asif added.
Aamir Sohail, another former Pakistan skipper, lauded Pakistan’s fighting show in Karachi saying it reminded him of Salim Malik and himself saving a home Test against Australia back in 1994.
“I can relate Babar innings [in Karachi] to Malik’s 143 in the 1994 Lahore Test where I scored 105 while playing second fiddle,” southpaw Aamir recalled.  Answering a question on Abdullah, the former opener reckoned the batter had a bright future.
“Abdullah showed a lot of courage [in Karachi]. However, I think he is still in the making and needs to improve his back foot game. He is a bright prospect with good defensive technique,” Aamir said of the 22-year-old batter who made a polished 96 in the second innings at Karachi.
Published in Dawn, March 18th, 2022

former pakistan captain asif iqbal, meanwhile, termed pakistan’s effort the “greatest fightback in the history of pakistan cricket”. aamir sohail, another former pakistan skipper, lauded pakistan’s fighting show in karachi saying it reminded him of salim malik and himself saving a home test against australia back in 1994. “with an appropriate playing xi, pakistan can control the proceedings in lahore,” the former right-arm pacer said. had there been a leg-spinner in the pakistan squad the story of the karachi test could have been different,” he reckoned. “even now if pakistan include a leg-spinner for the third test in lahore, that can definitely help our cause as australia’s middle-order doesn’t look that strong and can be pierced.”
sarfraz said pakistan could have the upper hand in lahore. “i can relate babar innings [in karachi] to malik’s 143 in the 1994 lahore test where i scored 105 while playing second fiddle,” southpaw aamir recalled. on why pakistan in the first place let pat cummins-led australia post a huge 556 at the national stadium, sarfraz said the home team missed a quality leg-spinner. “abdullah showed a lot of courage [in karachi]. he is a bright prospect with good defensive technique,” aamir said of the 22-year-old batter who made a polished 96 in the second innings at karachi. sarfraz nawaz, however, expected a bit more than the gigantic effort made by the hosts at the national stadium where pakistan overall have lost only two tests out of 44 while recording 23 wins. answering a question on abdullah, the former opener reckoned the batter had a bright future. “and i think this effort is also among the top two or three in the history of cricketing world.”
asif, 78, explained the reason for labelling the test as the “greatest fightback”. “the 1957 test against a ferocious bowling attack of west indies in bridgetown remains pakistan’s greatest-ever comeback in test cricket, courtesy great hanif mohammad’s marathon 337. however, considering modern-day cricket is all about power-hitting and tall scores, with batters expected to play aggressive strokes, forcing a draw in a contemporary test while chasing a gigantic 500-plus [against a world-class team like australia] is an exceptional performance. “they could’ve won it. “on a dry pitch under hot weather, like the one in karachi, a genuine leg-spinner is very effective, which pakistan have missed in the current series.


LAHORE:  Overlooking the top performers of the ongoing Pakistan Cup, the national selection committee announced the squads for Pakistan’s One-day and Twenty20 International series against Australia on Thursday.
Uncapped Khyber Pakhtun­khwa duo of all-rounder Asif Afridi and wicket-keeper/batter Mohammad Haris has been included in the squads for both the three-match ODI series and a solitary T20I, scheduled to be held between March 29 and April 5.
While announcing the provincial association teams squads for the country’s premier List A tournament, the Pakistan Cricket Board had said the Pakistan Cup was “a great opportunity to young and talented cricketers to showcase their skills to get a chance to represent Pakistan in white-ball series against Australia”.
But as it turns out, some extraordinary performances in the tournament have gone unnoticed by the selectors, especially those of opener Sharjeel Khan and left-arm spinner Khalid Usman.    
On Wednesday, Sharjeel smashed a double century in Sindh’s winning cause against Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, taking his Pakistan Cup runs tally to 458 at an average of 76.33. 
Despite the left-handers blistering form, Abdullah Shafique has been called up after a hundred in the first Test against Australia in Rawalpindi and a crucial knock of 96 in the second innings in the second game in Karachi.Khalid on the other hand has claimed 16 victims in the Pakistan Cup so far at 16.56. 
With left-arm spin options available in the national team set up in the form of all-rounders Khushdil Shah and Mohammad Nawaz, Asif’s inclusion raises questions. 
The 35-year-old has bagged eight wickets at 31.88 in the Pakistan Cup. However, his economy rate of 4.39 in the tournament and his eight wickets in five outings for finalists Multan Sultans in this year’s HBL Pakistan Super League has impressed the selection committee.Haris’ 166 runs in five matches for Peshawar Zalmi and an impressive strike rate of 186.5 was enough for chief selector Mohammad Wasim and co. to include him as a second choice wicket-keeper in place of former Pakistan skipper Sarfraz Ahmed. 
“Asif and Haris have earned the selectors’ nod as result of their impressive performances in the domestic circuit as the selectors have continued to provide opportunities to high-performing players as part of their strategy to increase the pool of top-class cricketers and developing a formidable bench-strength,” the PCB stated in a press release.
Haris was named in the Pakistan squad for the home series against New Zealand but the series couldn’t be played at the time as the Kiwis returned home on the day of the series opener.
According to the press release, Nawaz, who had withdrawn from participation in the Test series due to a foot injury, will be selected in the playing line-up if he passes fitness tests,” the PCB said.
While Pakistan’s ODI squad is 20-member strong, the T20I will have three players less as Abdullah, opener Imam-ul-Haq and middle-order batter Saud Shakeel leave the group after the 50-over games, which will be played as a part of the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League
“Australia are an equally outstanding team in the shorter formats of the game and, as such, we have decided to go with the best available and most experienced players,” Wasim was quoted as saying in the press release. 
The white-ball players will assemble in Lahore on March 22 and will undergo a three-day room isolation following which they will be allowed to integrate with the national side. 
With the political temperature in Islamabad high, there is a high probability of the white-ball matches, initially scheduled to be played in Rawalpindi, to be moved to Lahore.
ODI squad: Babar Azam (captain), Shadab Khan (vice-captain), Abdullah Shafique, Asif Afridi, Asif Ali (Northern), Fakhar Zaman, Haider Ali,   Haris Rauf, Hasan Ali, Iftikhar Ahmed, Imam-ul-Haq, Khushdil Shah, Mohammad Haris (wicket-keeper), Mohammad Nawaz, Mohammad Rizwan (wicket-keeper), Mohammad Wasim Jr., Saud Shakeel, Shaheen Shah Afridi, Shahnawaz Dahani, Usman Qadir. 
T20I squad: Babar Azam (captain), Shadab Khan (vice-captain), Asif Afridi, Asif Ali, Fakhar Zaman, Haider Ali, Haris Rauf, Hasan Ali, Iftikhar Ahmed, Khushdil Shah, Mohammad Haris (wicket-keeper), Mohammad Nawaz, Mohammad Rizwan (wicket-keeper),  Mohammad Wasim Jr, Shaheen Shah Afridi, Shahnawaz Dahani, Usman Qadir.
Published in Dawn, March 18th, 2022

t20i squad: babar azam (captain), shadab khan (vice-captain), asif afridi, asif ali, fakhar zaman, haider ali, haris rauf, hasan ali, iftikhar ahmed, khushdil shah, mohammad haris (wicket-keeper), mohammad nawaz, mohammad rizwan (wicket-keeper),  mohammad wasim jr, shaheen shah afridi, shahnawaz dahani, usman qadir. odi squad: babar azam (captain), shadab khan (vice-captain), abdullah shafique, asif afridi, asif ali (northern), fakhar zaman, haider ali,   haris rauf, hasan ali, iftikhar ahmed, imam-ul-haq, khushdil shah, mohammad haris (wicket-keeper), mohammad nawaz, mohammad rizwan (wicket-keeper), mohammad wasim jr., saud shakeel, shaheen shah afridi, shahnawaz dahani, usman qadir. lahore:  overlooking the top performers of the ongoing pakistan cup, the national selection committee announced the squads for pakistan’s one-day and twenty20 international series against australia on thursday. the 35-year-old has bagged eight wickets at 31.88 in the pakistan cup. haris was named in the pakistan squad for the home series against new zealand but the series couldn’t be played at the time as the kiwis returned home on the day of the series opener. uncapped khyber pakhtun­khwa duo of all-rounder asif afridi and wicket-keeper/batter mohammad haris has been included in the squads for both the three-match odi series and a solitary t20i, scheduled to be held between march 29 and april 5.
while announcing the provincial association teams squads for the country’s premier list a tournament, the pakistan cricket board had said the pakistan cup was “a great opportunity to young and talented cricketers to showcase their skills to get a chance to represent pakistan in white-ball series against australia”. while pakistan’s odi squad is 20-member strong, the t20i will have three players less as abdullah, opener imam-ul-haq and middle-order batter saud shakeel leave the group after the 50-over games, which will be played as a part of the icc men’s cricket world cup super league
“australia are an equally outstanding team in the shorter formats of the game and, as such, we have decided to go with the best available and most experienced players,” wasim was quoted as saying in the press release. however, his economy rate of 4.39 in the tournament and his eight wickets in five outings for finalists multan sultans in this year’s hbl pakistan super league has impressed the selection committee.haris’ 166 runs in five matches for peshawar zalmi and an impressive strike rate of 186.5 was enough for chief selector mohammad wasim and co. to include him as a second choice wicket-keeper in place of former pakistan skipper sarfraz ahmed. on wednesday, sharjeel smashed a double century in sindh’s winning cause against khyber pakhtunkhwa, taking his pakistan cup runs tally to 458 at an average of 76.33. 
despite the left-handers blistering form, abdullah shafique has been called up after a hundred in the first test against australia in rawalpindi and a crucial knock of 96 in the second innings in the second game in karachi.khalid on the other hand has claimed 16 victims in the pakistan cup so far at 16.56. 
with left-arm spin options available in the national team set up in the form of all-rounders khushdil shah and mohammad nawaz, asif’s inclusion raises questions.


LAHORE:  The Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) has hired the services of former ICC  Academy curator Toby Lumsden as consultant who will train its own curators according to the modern techniques of world cricket.
Interestingly, Lumsden has been hired after two of the ongoing three-Test series between Pakistan and Australia played in Rawalpindi and Karachi have already ended in draws. 
The third and the final Test is being played from March 21 at the Gaddafi Stadium, Lahore, where Lumsden is working to prepare the pitch along with local experts.
 
The PCB was heavily criticised for preparing a docile pitch for the Test in Rawalpindi where batters held sway over bowlers on all five days. On the other hand, the track for the second Test in Karachi proved much batter and almost created a result before the Test ended in a thrilling draw with full play on the last day.
After the first Test, PCB chairman Ramiz Raja had specified the policy of the Board in preparing the Rawalpindi pitch, admitting that the track was made according to the mandate given to the curators headed by Agha Zahid.
Accordingly, the pitch for the Karachi Test was made, and the same approach is being adopted for the Lahore Test. Therefore, it is very likely that the pitch being prepared at the Gaddafi Stadium will not go against the interests of the home team.
Published in Dawn, March 18th, 2022

accordingly, the pitch for the karachi test was made, and the same approach is being adopted for the lahore test. the third and the final test is being played from march 21 at the gaddafi stadium, lahore, where lumsden is working to prepare the pitch along with local experts. after the first test, pcb chairman ramiz raja had specified the policy of the board in preparing the rawalpindi pitch, admitting that the track was made according to the mandate given to the curators headed by agha zahid. the pcb was heavily criticised for preparing a docile pitch for the test in rawalpindi where batters held sway over bowlers on all five days. interestingly, lumsden has been hired after two of the ongoing three-test series between pakistan and australia played in rawalpindi and karachi have already ended in draws. lahore:  the pakistan cricket board (pcb) has hired the services of former icc  academy curator toby lumsden as consultant who will train its own curators according to the modern techniques of world cricket.


Babar Azam earning plaudits from local media personalities and cricket experts is a routine occurrence by now that happens pretty much every time he laces up. 
Leading the praise was England great Michael Vaughan who said Babar is "without question the best all-round batter in the world right now" and "brilliant" across all formats. 
 
West Indies batting legend Sir Vivian Richards applauded both Babar and Mohammad Rizwan's performance, calling them "exceptional talents".
He further said the world was "blessed to witness such players in the middle".
 
Cricketer-turned-coach Ian Pont described Babar's innings as "unbelievable", saying it showed why the Pakistan captain was the best in the world at the moment. 
 
"Extraordinary effort by Babar Azam to save the Test for Pakistan. Changed the game by looking to score day four rather than letting Australia dictate," tweeted Australian journalist Andrew Wu. 
 
Indian journalists were also effusive in their praise. 
"Controversial [question] but because sports must stretch beyond the LOC, here it is: is @babarazam258 the best all-format batsman today in the subcontinent?" asked Rajdeep Sardesai. 
 
Vikrant Gupta said the star batsman's innings "will pitchfork him to be counted as one of the modern-day greats". 
 
Uday Rana summarised it in one sentence, "The best Pakistan team I've seen in a long, long time."
 

"extraordinary effort by babar azam to save the test for pakistan. uday rana summarised it in one sentence, "the best pakistan team i've seen in a long, long time." cricketer-turned-coach ian pont described babar's innings as "unbelievable", saying it showed why the pakistan captain was the best in the world at the moment. leading the praise was england great michael vaughan who said babar is "without question the best all-round batter in the world right now" and "brilliant" across all formats. vikrant gupta said the star batsman's innings "will pitchfork him to be counted as one of the modern-day greats". he further said the world was "blessed to witness such players in the middle". "controversial [question] but because sports must stretch beyond the loc, here it is: is @babarazam258 the best all-format batsman today in the subcontinent?" babar azam earning plaudits from local media personalities and cricket experts is a routine occurrence by now that happens pretty much every time he laces up.


Inspired by a majestic 196 by captain Babar Azam and 104 by Mohammad Rizwan, Pakistan's 171.4-over stonewall was the longest any team has batted in the fourth innings of a Test, barring England's epic 654 for five in the 'Timeless Test' against South Africa in Durban in 1939.
“(Batting) five sessions in a Test match against a world-class team like Australia is no joke,” said wicketkeeper Rizwan.
“This match is definitely a benchmark for our team to rise above.” 
Australia, meanwhile, spoke of disappointment in falling three wickets short of victory but may quietly feel relieved to leave Karachi with the series tied.
Pakistan were motoring towards what would have been a record 506-run chase for victory until spinner Nathan Lyon dismissed Babar and all-rounder Faheem Ashraf in consecutive balls.
Australia's inability to close out matches from dominant positions on day five has become a problem.
They have now racked up five such failures in their last 19 tests, having let England off the hook in Sydney during the recent Ashes and India twice in the 2-1 series defeat in the previous home summer.
While Australian media questioned whether skipper Pat Cummins might have enforced the follow-on rather than making his team bat again, the tourists' sloppy fielding on day five ultimately paved the way for disappointment.
Mitchell Swepson, Australia's first Test leg spinner in more than a decade, may feel particularly aggrieved after finishing with figures of 0-156 from nearly 54 overs' work in the fourth innings of his debut Test, with four chances going begging off his bowling.
“I thought 'Swep-o' bowled fantastically today,” Cummins said.
“I don't know how he's ended up with those figures.” 
The wicket at Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium will be something of an unknown as it hosts its first Test since 2009.
Selecting an attack has been a virtual guessing game for Australia on their first tour of Pakistan in 24 years and Lahore may be no different.
Cummins said they will at least have a full complement of bowlers to choose from, with he and his fellow pacemen sparing themselves a bigger workload in Karachi by routing Pakistan for 148 in their first innings.

“(batting) five sessions in a test match against a world-class team like australia is no joke,” said wicketkeeper rizwan. “i thought 'swep-o' bowled fantastically today,” cummins said. mitchell swepson, australia's first test leg spinner in more than a decade, may feel particularly aggrieved after finishing with figures of 0-156 from nearly 54 overs' work in the fourth innings of his debut test, with four chances going begging off his bowling. inspired by a majestic 196 by captain babar azam and 104 by mohammad rizwan, pakistan's 171.4-over stonewall was the longest any team has batted in the fourth innings of a test, barring england's epic 654 for five in the 'timeless test' against south africa in durban in 1939. australia's inability to close out matches from dominant positions on day five has become a problem. “this match is definitely a benchmark for our team to rise above.” 
australia, meanwhile, spoke of disappointment in falling three wickets short of victory but may quietly feel relieved to leave karachi with the series tied. cummins said they will at least have a full complement of bowlers to choose from, with he and his fellow pacemen sparing themselves a bigger workload in karachi by routing pakistan for 148 in their first innings.


Australia were frustrated on the final day of the second Test at the National Stadium in Karachi on Wednesday as a resilient Pakistan snatched a draw from the jaws of defeat.
After two matches, the series still remains even but the result of the second Test must have felt a moral win for Pakistan, who at one point on the penultimate day were reeling at 21 for 2 in pursuit of a gargantuan 506-run target with a sea of overs left to survive.
Pakistan's best bet on the final day was to bat out their overs and Babar led by example as they finished on 443-7, the sixth highest fourth innings total of all time.
Babar's majestic knock, which included 21 fours and a six, will be an inspiration for his team heading into the third and final test in Lahore on Monday.
“The plan was to bat session-by-session and build partnerships,” the Pakistan captain, who was adjudged player-of-the-match said at the presentation ceremony.
“It was a team effort, as others chipped in with useful contributions too.” “We tried to be positive and play our shots. The team needed this knock, so I tried to bat for as long as I could.” 
The hosts were on the back foot after folding for 148 in reply to Australia's massive first innings total of 556-9 at the National Stadium.
The record victory target was never within Pakistan's reach but Babar's marathon 228-run partnership with opener Abdullah Shafique (96) kept them afloat in the contest.
Nathan Lyon (4-112) injected fresh drama in the final session dismissing Babar and Faheem Ashraf with successive deliveries but Mohammad Rizwan's unbeaten 104 helped Pakistan salvage a draw.
“I'm just really proud of the efforts,” Cummins said after Australia were stranded three wickets away from victory.
“The way we batted was fantastic, the way we hunted we took those wickets on day three with reverse swing, that was brilliant as well.
“We were always ahead in the game, so really proud of the boys,” added Cummins.
The opening test in Rawalpindi had also ended in a draw.

“i'm just really proud of the efforts,” cummins said after australia were stranded three wickets away from victory. australia were frustrated on the final day of the second test at the national stadium in karachi on wednesday as a resilient pakistan snatched a draw from the jaws of defeat. pakistan's best bet on the final day was to bat out their overs and babar led by example as they finished on 443-7, the sixth highest fourth innings total of all time. nathan lyon (4-112) injected fresh drama in the final session dismissing babar and faheem ashraf with successive deliveries but mohammad rizwan's unbeaten 104 helped pakistan salvage a draw. the opening test in rawalpindi had also ended in a draw. babar's majestic knock, which included 21 fours and a six, will be an inspiration for his team heading into the third and final test in lahore on monday. the record victory target was never within pakistan's reach but babar's marathon 228-run partnership with opener abdullah shafique (96) kept them afloat in the contest. the team needed this knock, so i tried to bat for as long as i could.” 
the hosts were on the back foot after folding for 148 in reply to australia's massive first innings total of 556-9 at the national stadium.


Babar Azam’s incredibly patient and clutch knock in the fourth innings of the second Test was quite comfortably the highlight of the match.
With the game and the home team’s pride on the line, Babar came in to bat on Tuesday when the team was reeling at 21 for 2. 
He formed an incredible 228-run partnership for the third wicket with Abdullah Shafique but did not flinch even when the young’un departed a few short of his century today.
The skipper had completed his 100 the previous day and was closing in on his first-ever double century when he fell prey to Nathan Lyon on Wednesday. In all, he scored 196 off 425 balls, hit 21 boundaries and a solitary six. 
His innings may have ended in a heartbreak but it took nothing away from his performance.
It was a day to remember for Babar, who played his best and most memorable knock in Pakistan colours — certainly in Tests and maybe even in all formats. Here is a full list of records he broke today:
Highest score by a Pakistani batter in fourth innings
Babar's 196 is the highest score by a Pakistani batsman in the fourth innings of a Test match. Previously, Younis Khan held that record. He had scored a 107 against India in Kolkata in 2007. It means that Babar improved that record by an astonishing 89 runs.
Highest score by a captain in the fourth innings.
Babar's 196 is also the highest score by a captain of any nationality in the fourth innings of a Test match. Previously, the record was held by England's Mike Atheron, who had scored an unbeaten 185 against South Africa in Johannesburg in 1995.
Most balls consumed by a Pakistan batter in 4th innings
Babar Azam consumed 425 balls, which makes his knock the longest ever in the 4th innings by a Pakistani batter in Test cricket. The record was previously held by Shoaib Malik, who had consumed 369 balls in his knock of 148* against Sri Lanka in Colombo in 2006.

highest score by a captain in the fourth innings. here is a full list of records he broke today:
highest score by a pakistani batter in fourth innings
babar's 196 is the highest score by a pakistani batsman in the fourth innings of a test match. previously, younis khan held that record. babar's 196 is also the highest score by a captain of any nationality in the fourth innings of a test match. previously, the record was held by england's mike atheron, who had scored an unbeaten 185 against south africa in johannesburg in 1995.
most balls consumed by a pakistan batter in 4th innings
babar azam consumed 425 balls, which makes his knock the longest ever in the 4th innings by a pakistani batter in test cricket. babar azam’s incredibly patient and clutch knock in the fourth innings of the second test was quite comfortably the highlight of the match. the record was previously held by shoaib malik, who had consumed 369 balls in his knock of 148* against sri lanka in colombo in 2006. he had scored a 107 against india in kolkata in 2007. it means that babar improved that record by an astonishing 89 runs.


Skipper Babar Azam hopes Pakistan's batters can keep faith in their abilities as they attempt to create history by chasing the highest-ever target in Test cricket to beat Australia in Karachi.
Babar cracked a fighting century with great support from opener Abdullah Shafique on Tuesday as Pakistan thwarted Australia's hopes of a quick win in the second Test in Karachi.
Set a daunting 506-run target, Babar knocked his sixth Test century — and second against Australia — to guide Pakistan to 192-2 and raise hopes of an improbable victory, or even a fighting draw.
At the close, Babar was unbeaten on 102 and Abdullah 71 as the pair added 171 for the third wicket, leaving the home team needing another 314 runs in the 90 overs of the final day for a win, or bat out three sessions for the draw.
“The match hasn't finished yet,” Babar told the broadcasters. “We need to continue batting like this and keep the belief (to create history).
“Definitely, my hundred was needed by the team and my plan was to build a partnership, which Abdullah and I did, but we need to continue like this (on Wednesday).” 
 
Pakistan lost Imamul Haq (one) and Azhar Ali (six) before Abdullah and Babar led the fightback, leaving Australia wicketless in the last session — despite taking the second new ball after 80 overs.
Babar top-edged a sweep off spinner Mitchell Swepson towards short fine-leg for two to reach the three-figure mark, his first in 21 innings since his 143 against Bangladesh in Rawalpindi in February 2020.
His hundred came in 247 minutes with 12 boundaries.
Abdullah was as solid as his skipper, having so far hit four boundaries and a six as he and Babar batted defiantly for 265 minutes.
No team has ever chased more than the 418-7 the West Indies amassed against Australia at Antigua in 2003, while Pakistan's highest successful chase was 377 against Sri Lanka at Pallekele in 2015.
Australia, resuming their second innings at 81-1, batted for just 26 minutes at the start of play to add 16 runs before declaring on 97-2.
The home team had hoped Azhar would anchor the second innings but the senior batsman was trapped lbw by Cameron Green while trying to evade a short-pitched delivery.
Azhar chose not to review as he trudged off but was left to regret it as television replays showed he had gloved the ball.
At 21-2, Australia seemed to have the upper edge and were looking to take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series but their efforts were thwarted by a slow turning pitch and the brilliance of Pakistan's batting pair.
Australia could have had Abdullah on 20 but the experienced Steve Smith spilled a straightforward catch in the slips off pacer Pat Cummins.
Australia's batting coach Michael Di Venuto described the chance as part of the game.
“Smith has good hands and he takes nine out of ten such catches but that happens,” said Di Venuto.
“It's going to be hard work (tomorrow) and since there is variable bounce on the pitch, it's going to be interesting.” 
Despite cracks on the National Cricket Stadium pitch, Australian spinners Nathan Lyon and Swepson failed to get a vicious turn.
Earlier, Imam and Abdullah were all caution as it took them until the fifth over to score the first run before Lyon struck.
Earlier, Marnus Labuschagne was bowled off a sharp Shaheen Shah Afridi delivery for 44 to prompt skipper Cummins to call Australia's innings to a close with first-innings century-maker Usman Khawaja, who was born in Pakistan, remaining 44 not out.
Australia are on their first tour of Pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to tour the country because of security fears.

babar cracked a fighting century with great support from opener abdullah shafique on tuesday as pakistan thwarted australia's hopes of a quick win in the second test in karachi. skipper babar azam hopes pakistan's batters can keep faith in their abilities as they attempt to create history by chasing the highest-ever target in test cricket to beat australia in karachi. set a daunting 506-run target, babar knocked his sixth test century — and second against australia — to guide pakistan to 192-2 and raise hopes of an improbable victory, or even a fighting draw. australia are on their first tour of pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to tour the country because of security fears. “we need to continue batting like this and keep the belief (to create history). australia's batting coach michael di venuto described the chance as part of the game. abdullah was as solid as his skipper, having so far hit four boundaries and a six as he and babar batted defiantly for 265 minutes. “definitely, my hundred was needed by the team and my plan was to build a partnership, which abdullah and i did, but we need to continue like this (on wednesday).” 
 
pakistan lost imamul haq (one) and azhar ali (six) before abdullah and babar led the fightback, leaving australia wicketless in the last session — despite taking the second new ball after 80 overs. “the match hasn't finished yet,” babar told the broadcasters. no team has ever chased more than the 418-7 the west indies amassed against australia at antigua in 2003, while pakistan's highest successful chase was 377 against sri lanka at pallekele in 2015.
australia, resuming their second innings at 81-1, batted for just 26 minutes at the start of play to add 16 runs before declaring on 97-2.
the home team had hoped azhar would anchor the second innings but the senior batsman was trapped lbw by cameron green while trying to evade a short-pitched delivery. at the close, babar was unbeaten on 102 and abdullah 71 as the pair added 171 for the third wicket, leaving the home team needing another 314 runs in the 90 overs of the final day for a win, or bat out three sessions for the draw. earlier, marnus labuschagne was bowled off a sharp shaheen shah afridi delivery for 44 to prompt skipper cummins to call australia's innings to a close with first-innings century-maker usman khawaja, who was born in pakistan, remaining 44 not out.


Early morning on March 3, 2009 a bus carrying the Sri Lankan cricket team to Lahore's Qaddafi Stadium for Day Three of their second Test match against Pakistan was targetted by militants.
Pakistan's millions of cricket fans rue the deplorable attack, especially since it deprived an entire generation of experiencing first-hand what is arguably the most celebrated game in the country.
As the Pakistan Super League final approaches, the memory of March 3, 2009 has motivated unprecedented levels of security and safety for both the stars of the game as well as those who will turn up to support them.
The following is an account of what transpired on that fateful day.
Around 8:50am, terrorists stormed through Liberty Chowk, Lahore, with the intention of carrying out a multi-pronged attack on the Sri Lankan team's convoy.
Using RPGs, hand grenades and guns, the attackers took aim at the bus carrying the cricketers. 
"For some reason I moved my head to get a better view and a split second later I felt a bullet fizz past my ear into the vacant seat," Mahela Jayawardene told ESPNCricinfo after the attack.
The Pakistani driver of the team's bus was shot, but in a remarkable feat of endurance and extraordinary presence of mind, he managed to drive the team away from the assault to safety.
Tragically, seven people were killed — including six policemen — and another 20 injured in the attack. The injured included seven members of the visiting cricket team.
Before leaving Pakistan, Mahela Jayawardene thanked the bus driver for saving the team.
"We owe the team bus driver our lives for his remarkable bravery in the face of direct gunfire ... Had he not had the courage and presence of mind to get the bus moving after the initial attack then we'd have been a far easier target for the terrorists,” the cricketing star said, recalling the horror.
"I honestly don't know how we escaped."
Following the attack, questions were raised about the quality of security afforded to the visiting cricket team. 
The capital city police officer at the time, Haji Habibur Rehman, claimed the Punjab government had been informed by intelligence officials in January 2009 of a possible assault on the visiting cricket team by the Indian spy agency, Research and Analysis Wing.
But Punjab's then police chief, Khawaja Khalid Farooq denied this claim and Punjab police and home department officials insisted they had taken every step to protect the guests. 
As authorities work to bring international cricket back to Pakistan, there is a recognition that extraordinary measures need to be taken to ensure players’ safety. 
Soon after the Punjab government, the Pakistan Cricket Board and the Pakistan Super League (PSL) management agreed to hold the league’s grand finale in Lahore, authorities announced they would take ‘unprecedented’ security measures for all foreign players who will be travelling to Pakistan to play. 
Among the measures announced is a presidential-level ‘five-tier’ security plan and ‘box security’ with guards dedicated to each individual's protection. 
Amid a nationwide crackdown on ‘mischievous elements’, Pakistan Army has also assured its full support for the sporting event, and law enforcement agencies are taking all measures necessary to ensure that there is no security breach on the day of the match. 
Timeline of terror
Pakistan is not the only country where the uncertain security situation has sparked concerns for visiting cricket teams. 
Unfortunately, Sri Lanka has also experienced multiple terrorist incidents during international cricket series.
A car bomb at a bus station killed over 100 people during New Zealand's three-Test tour of the country. The series was cut short to just one Test.
Colombo: Nov 16, 1992
A Tamil Tiger suicide attack outside the hotel where the New Zealand cricket team is staying kills four people.  Five players and the team's coach return home on compassionate grounds after the incident.
Colombo: Feb 11, 1996
A week after a bomb blast in Colombo kills 80 people and injures 1,200 others, Australia and West Indies refuse to play preliminary World Cup matches in Sri Lanka.
Colombo: July 24, 2001
A Tamil Tigers suicide attack closes Colombo's international airport as the New Zealand cricket team is on tour. At least 14 people are killed and 12 others wounded in an attack. The visitors play a match the next day amid heightened security. 
New Zealand aborts a tour to Pakistan after a bomb explodes outside the team`s hotel in Karachi, killing at least 11 French engineers.
Aug 2002
Australia cancels a tour to Pakistan over security concerns in the wake of the 9/11 attacks. The series is shifted to in the United Arab Emirates.
Karachi, Sept 2003
A bomb blast in Karachi forces the South African team to postpone its tour by a week.
New Delhi, Sept 13, 2008
Five blasts in the crowded markets and streets of Delhi killed 20 people and injured more than 90 just a week before the Austrlian cricket team was due to arrive for a tour. The team goes ahead with the tour. 
Mumbai, Nov 26, 2008
Gunmen tear through Mumbai hitting high-profile targets and killing about 170 people. The England cricket team flies home from India. 
Lahore, March 2009
Gunmen with rifles, grenades and rocket launchers attack Sri Lanka`s team in Lahore on its way to play the third day of the second test. Seven players, an umpire and an assistant coach are wounded, and six policemen and a driver are killed.
Lahore, May 30, 2015
A suicide blast outside Lahore's Qadhafi Stadium kills one person as the Zimbabwe team plays against Pakistan in the first One-Day International featuring an international team since the 2009 attack.

colombo: july 24, 2001
a tamil tigers suicide attack closes colombo's international airport as the new zealand cricket team is on tour. the injured included seven members of the visiting cricket team. colombo: nov 16, 1992
a tamil tiger suicide attack outside the hotel where the new zealand cricket team is staying kills four people. the england cricket team flies home from india. before leaving pakistan, mahela jayawardene thanked the bus driver for saving the team. lahore, may 30, 2015
a suicide blast outside lahore's qadhafi stadium kills one person as the zimbabwe team plays against pakistan in the first one-day international featuring an international team since the 2009 attack. lahore, march 2009
gunmen with rifles, grenades and rocket launchers attack sri lanka`s team in lahore on its way to play the third day of the second test. early morning on march 3, 2009 a bus carrying the sri lankan cricket team to lahore's qaddafi stadium for day three of their second test match against pakistan was targetted by militants. following the attack, questions were raised about the quality of security afforded to the visiting cricket team. the team goes ahead with the tour. new zealand aborts a tour to pakistan after a bomb explodes outside the team`s hotel in karachi, killing at least 11 french engineers. a car bomb at a bus station killed over 100 people during new zealand's three-test tour of the country. unfortunately, sri lanka has also experienced multiple terrorist incidents during international cricket series. the visitors play a match the next day amid heightened security. at least 14 people are killed and 12 others wounded in an attack. karachi, sept 2003
a bomb blast in karachi forces the south african team to postpone its tour by a week. soon after the punjab government, the pakistan cricket board and the pakistan super league (psl) management agreed to hold the league’s grand finale in lahore, authorities announced they would take ‘unprecedented’ security measures for all foreign players who will be travelling to pakistan to play. tragically, seven people were killed — including six policemen — and another 20 injured in the attack. as authorities work to bring international cricket back to pakistan, there is a recognition that extraordinary measures need to be taken to ensure players’ safety. timeline of terror
pakistan is not the only country where the uncertain security situation has sparked concerns for visiting cricket teams. five players and the team's coach return home on compassionate grounds after the incident. around 8:50am, terrorists stormed through liberty chowk, lahore, with the intention of carrying out a multi-pronged attack on the sri lankan team's convoy. new delhi, sept 13, 2008
five blasts in the crowded markets and streets of delhi killed 20 people and injured more than 90 just a week before the austrlian cricket team was due to arrive for a tour. colombo: feb 11, 1996
a week after a bomb blast in colombo kills 80 people and injures 1,200 others, australia and west indies refuse to play preliminary world cup matches in sri lanka. aug 2002
australia cancels a tour to pakistan over security concerns in the wake of the 9/11 attacks.


Pakistan were all out for 148 in reply to Australia's first innings total of 556-9 declared on day three of the second Test at the National Stadium in Karachi on Monday.
Skipper Babar Azam's 36 was the highest score for the hosts.
Meanwhile, Mitchell Starc was the pick of the Australia bowlers, claiming 3-29.
Australia, after declaring their first innings, reduced Pakistan to 100 for seven at tea to seize control of the second Test. Australian skipper Pat Cummins smashed three sixes in his unbeaten 34 off 36 balls against a jaded Pakistan attack on a slow track.
Pakistan had reasons to feel let down by their in-form openers who showed poor judgment to depart either side of the lunch break.
Abdullah Shafique made 13 before chasing a non-existent single only to be run out.
Imam, who smashed twin hundreds in the drawn series opener in Rawalpindi, paid the price for his needless aggression in the first over after the lunch break.
The bespectacled left-hander stepped out against Nathan Lyon only to chip a head-high catch to Cummins at mid-on to depart for 20.
Starc then claimed two in two to rock Pakistan.
The left-arm quick lured Azhar Ali (14) into driving a full and wide delivery and Cameron Green grabbed the edge at second slip.
Starc followed it with a searing yorker to trap Fawad Alam lbw for a duck.
 
Mohammad Rizwan somehow denied Starc a hat-trick but looked pretty much a sitting duck during his 13-ball stay.
Dropped in the slip by Steve Smith off Cummins, Rizwan got another life in the very next ball when an lbw decision against him was overturned.
It did not really matter though as Cummins returned to dismiss Rizwan caught behind in his next over.
Starc owed his third wicket to Alex Carey who was convinced he had taken a catch from Sajid Khan even though the bowler himself was not sure and the umpire did not think so either.
Carey convinced Cummins to review the original not-out decision and Sajid had to go after replays confirmed an edge. 
Australia are on their first tour of Pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to tour on security reasons.

australia are on their first tour of pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to tour on security reasons. meanwhile, mitchell starc was the pick of the australia bowlers, claiming 3-29.
australia, after declaring their first innings, reduced pakistan to 100 for seven at tea to seize control of the second test. carey convinced cummins to review the original not-out decision and sajid had to go after replays confirmed an edge. the bespectacled left-hander stepped out against nathan lyon only to chip a head-high catch to cummins at mid-on to depart for 20.
starc then claimed two in two to rock pakistan. pakistan were all out for 148 in reply to australia's first innings total of 556-9 declared on day three of the second test at the national stadium in karachi on monday. australian skipper pat cummins smashed three sixes in his unbeaten 34 off 36 balls against a jaded pakistan attack on a slow track. dropped in the slip by steve smith off cummins, rizwan got another life in the very next ball when an lbw decision against him was overturned. pakistan had reasons to feel let down by their in-form openers who showed poor judgment to depart either side of the lunch break. it did not really matter though as cummins returned to dismiss rizwan caught behind in his next over. starc followed it with a searing yorker to trap fawad alam lbw for a duck.


ABU DHABI: Test match cricket is battling to preserve its status as the pinnacle of the sport as many fans abandon the five-day format for the quick-fix attractions of Twenty20 and one-day internationals.
Here's a look at the state of play around the world.
India
BCCI officials insist Test cricket is alive and kicking in a country where ODIs and T20 games rule. They point to large crowds that attend Test matches in southern centres like Chennai and Bangalore, the Eden Gardens in eastern Kolkata, or the Kotla in New Delhi.
But centres like Mohali in northern Punjab, where South Africa play the first Test from November 5, or Nagpur, the venue of the third Test where the stadium is located on the outskirts of the city, barely draw a few hundred to the five-day game.
Even Mumbai, once regarded as the nursery of Indian cricket that has produced such batting greats as Sunil Gavaskar and Sachin Tendulkar, has lost its taste for Test cricket. Observers were surprised that the Wankhede stadium was not packed even for Tendulkar's last Test match in 2013.
“At most centres you get crowds of 10,000 a day for a Test, which is more than what many other nations get for an entire match,” a senior BCCI official told AFP.
“A lot also depends on who the opposition is. Teams like Australia, Pakistan or England will always attract crowds. Even the series against South Africa will be well-attended.” 
UAE (Pakistan's temporary home)
When Pakistan and England opened their Test series in Abu Dhabi last week, only 54 people watched the first day at the 20,000-capacity Sheikh Zayed Stadium.
The stadium's operations manager Shahnawaz Hakim admitted that crowds have always been bigger for one-day internationals than for five-day Tests.
“We put prices on tickets in anticipation that people would come but there were insignificant numbers on the first two days,” Hakim said.
Prices ranged from just $5 to $28.
“We expect more people in the one-day internationals — in fact, it's always a full house on Friday in limited overs matches,” said Hakim, of the four one-day and three Twenty20 internationals which will follow the three-match Test series.
England's enthusiastic supporters group, the touring “Barmy Army” outnumbered locally-based fans, mainly expats from India and Pakistan whose time to watch cricket is severely limited by their work duties.
Sri Lanka
Most Tests in Sri Lanka, even against India or Pakistan, are played in front of empty stands.
Galle attracted a full house of around 8,000 when England played a Test there in 2012 -- but most of them were travelling England supporters. There was hardly a Sri Lankan fan to be seen at the picturesque ground.
Bangladesh
Test cricket is well supported when played at smaller venues like Khulna, Chittagong or Fatullah. But there is hardly any interest for Tests in the capital Dhaka, which however draws full houses for limited overs games.
Australia
Test cricket holds a significant place in the crowded Australian sports culture. While other cricket-playing countries give priority to the popular Twenty20 and one-day format, Australia celebrates one of its biggest sporting days of the calendar at the Boxing Day Test at the cavernous Melbourne Cricket Ground.
The 2013 Ashes Test against England drew 91,112 fans for the opening day, while India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan and South Africa have regularly attracted first-day festive crowds of 60,000-plus.
The Boxing Day Test is regarded as the jewel in the crown of Australian cricket.
The Sydney Cricket Ground Test over the New Year period is regularly sold out for the first three days, depending on the opponents with daily attendances topping over 40,000 for England and India Test matches.
The Adelaide Oval, which will host cricket's first day-night Test match against New Zealand next month, has undergone extensive renovations in recent years to also cater for the domestic Australian Football League market and the popular T20 Big Bash and can now accommodate crowds of 50,000-plus.
The infamous “Bodyline” Test against England in 1933 still stands at 50,962 for an Adelaide Oval ground record for Test cricket.
South Africa
South Africa, the number one Test team in the world, have had reasonable attendances at Test matches in recent seasons, with Newlands in Cape Town and SuperSport Park at Centurion regularly attracting near-capacity crowds on some days. Other venues, notably Durban and Port Elizabeth, have been less well attended.
Haroon Lorgat, chief executive of Cricket South Africa, said he was satisfied that Test cricket was holding its own in a competitive entertainment.
“Over the last four home summers we have played quality series against Australia, India and the West Indies and this has resulted in combined sales of almost one million tickets,” he said.
“Newlands is our premier Test venue with the annual New Year Test match regarded by players and fans as one of the most iconic sporting events in the world. Our aim is to raise the level of fan appeal at our other Test venues.” 
Lorgat said the coming season, with a home series against England, would attract near-capacity crowds, bolstered by an expected large contingent of English supporters.
Tickets for the first three days of the New Year Test at Newlands are sold out. 
“We are now considering the feasibility of erecting temporary stands to accommodate the demand,” said Lorgat.
West Indies
Generally speaking, experts believe that the storied Queen's Park Oval in Trinidad has the biggest struggle to seduce fans to the attractions of Test match cricket while Windsor Park in Dominica is relatively thriving.
Trinidad is one of the traditional Test venues going back to 1930.
But it suffers as fans are no longer attracted to the longer game, given the results of the declining West Indies team over the past 20 years.
The opposite is true for Dominica, which hosted its first test in 2011 and where the novelty factor still ensures enthusiasm and a decent turnout.
Trinidad did have at least one sell-out crowd in 2015 when more than 20,000 people watched the final of the Twenty20 Caribbean Premier League.

teams like australia, pakistan or england will always attract crowds. tickets for the first three days of the new year test at newlands are sold out. the 2013 ashes test against england drew 91,112 fans for the opening day, while india, sri lanka, pakistan and south africa have regularly attracted first-day festive crowds of 60,000-plus. the infamous “bodyline” test against england in 1933 still stands at 50,962 for an adelaide oval ground record for test cricket. even the series against south africa will be well-attended.” 
uae (pakistan's temporary home)
when pakistan and england opened their test series in abu dhabi last week, only 54 people watched the first day at the 20,000-capacity sheikh zayed stadium. the boxing day test is regarded as the jewel in the crown of australian cricket. bangladesh
test cricket is well supported when played at smaller venues like khulna, chittagong or fatullah. the sydney cricket ground test over the new year period is regularly sold out for the first three days, depending on the opponents with daily attendances topping over 40,000 for england and india test matches. sri lanka
most tests in sri lanka, even against india or pakistan, are played in front of empty stands. south africa
south africa, the number one test team in the world, have had reasonable attendances at test matches in recent seasons, with newlands in cape town and supersport park at centurion regularly attracting near-capacity crowds on some days. “newlands is our premier test venue with the annual new year test match regarded by players and fans as one of the most iconic sporting events in the world. australia
test cricket holds a significant place in the crowded australian sports culture. haroon lorgat, chief executive of cricket south africa, said he was satisfied that test cricket was holding its own in a competitive entertainment. galle attracted a full house of around 8,000 when england played a test there in 2012 -- but most of them were travelling england supporters. observers were surprised that the wankhede stadium was not packed even for tendulkar's last test match in 2013. while other cricket-playing countries give priority to the popular twenty20 and one-day format, australia celebrates one of its biggest sporting days of the calendar at the boxing day test at the cavernous melbourne cricket ground. west indies
generally speaking, experts believe that the storied queen's park oval in trinidad has the biggest struggle to seduce fans to the attractions of test match cricket while windsor park in dominica is relatively thriving. india
bcci officials insist test cricket is alive and kicking in a country where odis and t20 games rule. “we expect more people in the one-day internationals — in fact, it's always a full house on friday in limited overs matches,” said hakim, of the four one-day and three twenty20 internationals which will follow the three-match test series. “over the last four home summers we have played quality series against australia, india and the west indies and this has resulted in combined sales of almost one million tickets,” he said. the adelaide oval, which will host cricket's first day-night test match against new zealand next month, has undergone extensive renovations in recent years to also cater for the domestic australian football league market and the popular t20 big bash and can now accommodate crowds of 50,000-plus. “we put prices on tickets in anticipation that people would come but there were insignificant numbers on the first two days,” hakim said. abu dhabi: test match cricket is battling to preserve its status as the pinnacle of the sport as many fans abandon the five-day format for the quick-fix attractions of twenty20 and one-day internationals. trinidad is one of the traditional test venues going back to 1930.
but it suffers as fans are no longer attracted to the longer game, given the results of the declining west indies team over the past 20 years.


Bowlers traditionally get the ball to move or swing in the air by applying shine to one side using sweat or saliva.
The International Cricket Council (ICC), however, has temporarily banned the practice over virus transmission fears as teams prepare to return to the pitch in the coming weeks.
Players can still apply sweat to the ball.
“It's a quizzical situation for me as I grew up using saliva to shine the ball and to swing it,” he added.
“I am all for precautions in these tough times, so bowlers have to wait for the ball to get old and rough for them to get swing."
Sweat alone was unlikely to generate swing as in some countries it was too cold, said Akram.
“Sweat is just something of an add-on, a top-up. Too much use of sweat will leave the cricket ball too wet,” he said.
Akram, who took 414 Test and 502 one-day international wickets in a storied career, believes artificial substance could potentially help as he encouraged officials to keep searching for alternatives.
“I believe that they will need to find a reasonable solution. Artificial substances like vaseline could be used to swing the ball but how much of it?
“Let's see, we have this England versus the West Indies series to judge how it goes, because I have never experienced this thing.”
International cricket resumes with England hosting the West Indies in a Test series later this month.
Akram said suggestions that limited ball tampering be allowed should also be considered by officials.
“When can you tamper the ball? Right from the first over or after 20-25 overs? They will need to sit down and do brainstorming,” he added.
“The game is already tilted more in favour of the batsmen."

too much use of sweat will leave the cricket ball too wet,” he said. players can still apply sweat to the ball. bowlers traditionally get the ball to move or swing in the air by applying shine to one side using sweat or saliva. artificial substances like vaseline could be used to swing the ball but how much of it? “when can you tamper the ball? akram said suggestions that limited ball tampering be allowed should also be considered by officials. sweat alone was unlikely to generate swing as in some countries it was too cold, said akram. “it's a quizzical situation for me as i grew up using saliva to shine the ball and to swing it,” he added. “i am all for precautions in these tough times, so bowlers have to wait for the ball to get old and rough for them to get swing." “let's see, we have this england versus the west indies series to judge how it goes, because i have never experienced this thing.”
international cricket resumes with england hosting the west indies in a test series later this month. “sweat is just something of an add-on, a top-up.


Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) Chairman Ramiz Raja has stressed the need to revive Pakistan-India cricketing ties, saying the two boards should "create a cricketing bond" while politics must be kept away from the sport.
The PCB chief added that "a lot of work needs to be done to revitalise Pakistan-India cricket but there needs to be some comfort level between the two boards and then we can see how far we can go." 
"So overall, we had a good discussion,” he said.
Pakistan versus India matches are hotly anticipated by cricket fans on both sides of the border as well as around the world. Given the two countries' frosty relations, the two teams have only been playing each other in major world tournaments.
'Collective stance through ACC'
Raja said the ACC had been established to "create a unified approach and collective stance so that we had one voice and if there was a situation, all stood together".
“My message at the ACC was that we should not forget this philosophy and I am optimistic there will be better outcomes in future.”
Asia Cup 2023
Speaking about Aisa Cup 2023, Raja announced that the tournament, a 50-over competition, would be held in Pakistan in September.
“The ACC has agreed and approved that the 2023 event in Pakistan will be a 50-over competition and held in September. This aligns very nicely with the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup 2023, which will be held in October and November," the PCB Digital quoted him as saying.
He added, “we are looking forward to hosting this tournament in Pakistan and I am confident it will be a well-organised event because this is what the fans want."
Raja further said the ACC has also confirmed that the next year's Asia Cup would be a 20-over competition and held in Sri Lanka.
"[It] will be a prelude to the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2022 to be held in Australia from 16 October to 13 November,” he said.

raja further said the acc has also confirmed that the next year's asia cup would be a 20-over competition and held in sri lanka. this aligns very nicely with the icc men’s cricket world cup 2023, which will be held in october and november," the pcb digital quoted him as saying. “the acc has agreed and approved that the 2023 event in pakistan will be a 50-over competition and held in september. "[it] will be a prelude to the icc men’s t20 world cup 2022 to be held in australia from 16 october to 13 november,” he said. pakistan versus india matches are hotly anticipated by cricket fans on both sides of the border as well as around the world. pakistan cricket board (pcb) chairman ramiz raja has stressed the need to revive pakistan-india cricketing ties, saying the two boards should "create a cricketing bond" while politics must be kept away from the sport. “my message at the acc was that we should not forget this philosophy and i am optimistic there will be better outcomes in future.”
asia cup 2023
speaking about aisa cup 2023, raja announced that the tournament, a 50-over competition, would be held in pakistan in september. given the two countries' frosty relations, the two teams have only been playing each other in major world tournaments.


Three fans breached security at Bangalore's M Chinnaswamy Stadium on Sunday to take a selfie with India's superstar cricketer Virat Kohli and one returned successful.
Kohli was at first slip in the final session of the second day of the pink ball Test against Sri Lanka when three young men ran on the field and attempted to embrace the player.
A group of security officers gave chase and eventually overpowered the youngsters before hauling them off the field as the crowd roared and clapped.
 
Kohli was taken aback by the sudden intrusion but obliged the fans' request although he still signalled to them not to come too close due to the bubble protocols.
The crowd has welcomed Kohli with huge applause each time the star batsman has appeared on the ground that is home to his IPL team Royal Challengers Bangalore.
Kohli, 33, is often the subject of adulation with one fan even touching his feet before taking a selfie during an Indian Premier League game in 2018.

three fans breached security at bangalore's m chinnaswamy stadium on sunday to take a selfie with india's superstar cricketer virat kohli and one returned successful. kohli, 33, is often the subject of adulation with one fan even touching his feet before taking a selfie during an indian premier league game in 2018. the crowd has welcomed kohli with huge applause each time the star batsman has appeared on the ground that is home to his ipl team royal challengers bangalore. a group of security officers gave chase and eventually overpowered the youngsters before hauling them off the field as the crowd roared and clapped.


LAHORE: The Australian cricket board has agreed to shift the white-ball series to Lahore from Rawalpindi due to the ongoing political crisis in the country.
In a statement, the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) said that the decision was made on Saturday morning following discussions between the two boards, however, the schedule will remain the same.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

This means Gaddafi Stadium will host the 29 March, 31 March and 2 April One-Day Internationals as well as the one-off Twenty20 International on 5 April at the back of the third Test, which commences on 21 March.
The 50-over matches will start at 3:00pm, while the first ball in the 20-over match will be bowled at 08:30pm.
Australia’s white-ball players, as originally planned, will arrive in Lahore on 24 March and after one-day room isolation, will integrate with other members of their side. 
Pakistan’s white-ball players are scheduled to assemble on 22 March and will resume training on 25 March.
The PCB will shortly announce ticket details.
The ODIs are part of the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup Super League. Top seven-placed sides from this event plus ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup 2023 hosts India will qualify directly for the pinnacle 50-over competition, which will be staged next year in October/November. 
Australia are presently seventh and Pakistan ninth in the 13-team event, but a lot of 50-over cricket still needs to be played.
Squads:

the odis are part of the icc men’s cricket world cup super league. pakistan’s white-ball players are scheduled to assemble on 22 march and will resume training on 25 march. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

this means gaddafi stadium will host the 29 march, 31 march and 2 april one-day internationals as well as the one-off twenty20 international on 5 april at the back of the third test, which commences on 21 march. australia are presently seventh and pakistan ninth in the 13-team event, but a lot of 50-over cricket still needs to be played. lahore: the australian cricket board has agreed to shift the white-ball series to lahore from rawalpindi due to the ongoing political crisis in the country. australia’s white-ball players, as originally planned, will arrive in lahore on 24 march and after one-day room isolation, will integrate with other members of their side. top seven-placed sides from this event plus icc men’s cricket world cup 2023 hosts india will qualify directly for the pinnacle 50-over competition, which will be staged next year in october/november.


ISLAMBAD: All the T20I and ODI matches scheduled to be played in Rawalpindi under the ongoing Pakistan vs Australia series have been shifted to Lahore, Interior Minister Sheikh Rasheed Ahmad said Friday amid heightened political tensions in the Federal Capital. 
The minister said that Pakistan's  white-ball home series against Australia, slated to start March 29, will be hosted at Lahore's Gaddafi stadium

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

The government decided to move the matches keeping in view the situation in Islamabad which grows intense with the clock ticking towards the vote of the no-confidence motion against Prime Minister Imran Khan.
A bulk of the Australian white-ball team members are set to arrive in Lahore on March 24.

the minister said that pakistan's  white-ball home series against australia, slated to start march 29, will be hosted at lahore's gaddafi stadium

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

the government decided to move the matches keeping in view the situation in islamabad which grows intense with the clock ticking towards the vote of the no-confidence motion against prime minister imran khan. islambad: all the t20i and odi matches scheduled to be played in rawalpindi under the ongoing pakistan vs australia series have been shifted to lahore, interior minister sheikh rasheed ahmad said friday amid heightened political tensions in the federal capital.



.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

The duo of Rizwan and Nauman played almost eight overs after the wicket of Sajid Khan, giving the team a much-needed boost after disastrous first innings.
The team needed someone to stay on the wicket with Rizwan and play out the remaining overs after a slight collapse following Babar Azam’s fall.
There were some hiccups and nervous moments after the skipper departed as Faheem Ashraf lasted just one ball and Sajid Khan survived 10 deliveries as Pakistan slipped from 392 for four to 414 for seven with 48 balls in the Test remaining.
It was when Rizwan showed nerves of steel along with Nauman and ensured Pakistan kept its chances of winning the Test series alive. 
Crediting his partner for “standing tall” in the crucial overs, Rizwan said, “Those last 18 balls were very crucial for us. Nauman’s zero was equal to my century. Karachi’s crowd also supported us massively and helped us draw the match.”
The right-handed batter said that the time when Babar and Faheem’s wickets fell was critical and it was important to stay on the wicket rather than making a century.
“I was concerned about wickets when Nathon Lyon came for bowling.” 
Sharing details how he prepared to play against Australia, the wicketkeeper-batter said they practised with a tape ball when they faced difficulties against the visitors.
 

                                    {
                                      "@context": "http://schema.org",
                                      "@type": "VideoObject",
                                      "mainEntityOfPage":"https://www.thenews.com.pk/latest/942309-pak-vs-naumans-0-was-more-important-than-my-100m-says-mohammad-rizwan",
                                       "duration":"",
                                        "datePublished": "2022-03-17T13:52:41+05:00",
                                        "dateModified": "2022-03-17T13:52:41+05:00",
                                        "keywords":"",
                                         "headline":"Pak vs Aus: Nauman's zero was equal to my 100, says Mohammad Rizwan",
                                        "interactionCount": "",
                                        "thumbnail": {
                                            "@type": "ImageObject",
                                            "url": "https://www.thenews.com.pk/assets/uploads/updates/2022-03-17/942309_015830_updates.jpg",
                                            "height": 390,
                                            "width": 700
                                        },
                                      "name": "Pak vs Aus: Nauman's zero was equal to my 100, says Mohammad Rizwan",
                                      "description": "KARACHI: Pakistan cricket team&rsquo;s vice-captain Mohammad Rizwan has given full marks to Nauman Ali for negotiating crucial three overs on a spinning track in the second Test against Australia...",
                                      "thumbnailUrl": "https://www.thenews.com.pk/assets/uploads/updates/2022-03-17/942309_015830_updates.jpg",
                                      "uploadDate": "2022-03-17T13:52:41+05:00",
                                      "contentUrl": "https://players.brightcove.net/6100381078001/8KnR4E9yW_default/index.html?videoId=6300937388001"
                                    }
                                 

nauman’s zero was equal to my century. 
.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

the duo of rizwan and nauman played almost eight overs after the wicket of sajid khan, giving the team a much-needed boost after disastrous first innings. crediting his partner for “standing tall” in the crucial overs, rizwan said, “those last 18 balls were very crucial for us. the team needed someone to stay on the wicket with rizwan and play out the remaining overs after a slight collapse following babar azam’s fall. it was when rizwan showed nerves of steel along with nauman and ensured pakistan kept its chances of winning the test series alive. karachi’s crowd also supported us massively and helped us draw the match.”
the right-handed batter said that the time when babar and faheem’s wickets fell was critical and it was important to stay on the wicket rather than making a century.


KARACHI: When Australian cricket fan Luke Gillian last visited Pakistan in 1998, home supporters threw stones at him when he ventured out in public.
These days everyone wants a selfie.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Gillian is back in Pakistan with a small troupe of Australian super fans, dubbed the "Fanatics", on their first tour of the country in nearly a quarter of a century -- and has been blown away by the welcome they have received.
Australia for 24 years, along with many international teams, declined to tour Pakistan on security grounds.
The situation became worse after a fatal terror attack on the Sri Lanka team bus in Lahore in 2009, after which Pakistan had to play "home" games abroad for a decade, mostly in the United Arab Emirates.
But the cricket-mad nation is lapping up the current tour by the world's top-ranked Test team, which will see the three-Test series go to a decider in Lahore next week after draws in Rawalpindi and Karachi.
"It was perceived to be too dangerous to go outside," Gillian said of his visit on Australia's last tour in 1998.
"When I did get outside there were large groups of people walking in the streets and I had rocks thrown at me."
Nearly a quarter of a century later, attitudes have changed.
"I reckon, in Rawalpindi, 500 photographs were taken of me every day, easily," the 51-year-old from Victoria told AFP.
- Piece of cake -
"I have been given I don't know how many cups of tea, how many pieces of cake, bottles of Pepsi, water and just little incidentals people have given us as a 'thank you' -- free haircuts, free laundry."
Like most Australians, Gillian took to cricket as a child.
"You grow up with cricket in your blood," he said.
"You often hold a cricket bat or a ball before you know how to walk, and as soon as you can walk, you mark your run-up to bowl."
Over the years he has visited every major cricket-playing nation -- even socialising with Australian greats such as Shane Warne, Adam Gilchrist, Michael Clarke and Justin Langer.
But those days are a thing of the past, with modern players under intense social media scrutiny, coupled with strict anti-match fixing protocols to keep players away from "undesirable" elements such as illegal bookmakers.
"Now there is a strong disconnect between myself and the team," said Gillian.
"Let's go back 15 years... I would still get text messages (from players), saying: 'We are going to go for a beer in this place after the game, if you want to join us'. It's gone and I miss it," he said.
Gillian said he decided to make this trip as much to support Pakistan's efforts to re-establish itself as a safe cricketing destination as to shout for Australia.
"I am here for the game, to show the outside world that we can actually watch cricket and travel to Pakistan and be safe, be happy and enjoy," he said.
"I think that love, and the embrace of each other and the game itself, if that goes across to the wider audience, then it can sell the great game and sell the connect between the two nations and two cultures.
"Win or lose, it doesn't matter."

"it was perceived to be too dangerous to go outside," gillian said of his visit on australia's last tour in 1998. australia for 24 years, along with many international teams, declined to tour pakistan on security grounds. karachi: when australian cricket fan luke gillian last visited pakistan in 1998, home supporters threw stones at him when he ventured out in public. like most australians, gillian took to cricket as a child. "you grow up with cricket in your blood," he said. "now there is a strong disconnect between myself and the team," said gillian. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

gillian is back in pakistan with a small troupe of australian super fans, dubbed the "fanatics", on their first tour of the country in nearly a quarter of a century -- and has been blown away by the welcome they have received. "i am here for the game, to show the outside world that we can actually watch cricket and travel to pakistan and be safe, be happy and enjoy," he said. "let's go back 15 years... i would still get text messages (from players), saying: 'we are going to go for a beer in this place after the game, if you want to join us'. gillian said he decided to make this trip as much to support pakistan's efforts to re-establish itself as a safe cricketing destination as to shout for australia. it's gone and i miss it," he said. but the cricket-mad nation is lapping up the current tour by the world's top-ranked test team, which will see the three-test series go to a decider in lahore next week after draws in rawalpindi and karachi. nearly a quarter of a century later, attitudes have changed. - piece of cake -
"i have been given i don't know how many cups of tea, how many pieces of cake, bottles of pepsi, water and just little incidentals people have given us as a 'thank you' -- free haircuts, free laundry."


KARACHI: Pakistan skipper Babar Azam smashed 196 and Mohammad Rizwan 104 not out to deny Australia victory Wednesday and force a dramatic draw in the second Test in Karachi.
The Pakistan pair put the home team well on course for a draw, but spinner Nathan Lyon turned the match on its head by dismissing Azam and Faheem Ashraf with successive deliveries.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Lyon came on to bowl the third of the 15 mandatory remaining overs of the match, and with his fourth delivery had Azam glove a catch to Marnus Labuschagne at forward short-leg.
Next ball Lyon had Ashraf caught at slip to raise hopes of an Australian win.
The late-hour drama also saw Usman Khawaja drop Rizwan on 91 off luckless spinner Mitchell Swepson with 18 balls left in the match.
The pugnacious Rizwan, in company of tailender Nauman Ali (nought), batted out 46 balls during their 29-run stand for the eighth wicket to keep the three-match series tied at 0-0.
The first Test also ended in a draw in Rawalpindi, while the third and final Test will start in Lahore from Monday.
Azam's score become the best-ever fourth innings by a captain, surpassing Mike Atherton's 185 for England against South Africa in 1995.
His score is also the highest fourth-innings individual total by a Pakistani, erasing the 171 not out Younis Khan made against Sri Lanka in Pallekele in 2015.
The Pakistan skipper added an invaluable 228 runs for the third wicket with Abdullah Shafique (96) and another 115 for the fifth with Rizwan, keeping Australia's spin-cum-pace attack at bay.
Rizwan hit 11 boundaries and a six.
With Pakistan falling 63 short of the 506-run target, the record for the highest chase in all Test cricket remains with the West Indies who scored 418 against Australia at Antigua in 2003.
Azam's knock frustrated Australia and their skipper Pat Cummins who dismissed Shafique and Fawad Alam (nine) in the first two sessions to raise hopes of a win.
But Australia were themselves to blame for not dislodging Azam as Travis Head and then Labuschagne dropped sharp catches off Swepson off successive deliveries with the batsman on 161.
Azam also survived a confident leg-before appeal against spinner Lyon when on 157, but it turned out to be umpire Aleem Dar's call on review.
Lyon was the best Australian bowler with 4-112 off a marathon 55 overs.
Earlier, Cummins struck eight minutes before lunch to end an epic third-wicket stand with the score on 249.
Shafique, who hit 136 not out in the first Test, drove Cummins for a boundary to reach 96.
But in his next over the Australian fast bowler drew the right-hander into another drive which this time found the edge.
Smith held a sharp catch in the slips, making amends for dropping the same batsman, on 20, from a more straightforward chance at slip off Cummins the day before.

next ball lyon had ashraf caught at slip to raise hopes of an australian win. karachi: pakistan skipper babar azam smashed 196 and mohammad rizwan 104 not out to deny australia victory wednesday and force a dramatic draw in the second test in karachi. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

lyon came on to bowl the third of the 15 mandatory remaining overs of the match, and with his fourth delivery had azam glove a catch to marnus labuschagne at forward short-leg. the pakistan pair put the home team well on course for a draw, but spinner nathan lyon turned the match on its head by dismissing azam and faheem ashraf with successive deliveries. lyon was the best australian bowler with 4-112 off a marathon 55 overs. rizwan hit 11 boundaries and a six. the late-hour drama also saw usman khawaja drop rizwan on 91 off luckless spinner mitchell swepson with 18 balls left in the match. but australia were themselves to blame for not dislodging azam as travis head and then labuschagne dropped sharp catches off swepson off successive deliveries with the batsman on 161.
azam also survived a confident leg-before appeal against spinner lyon when on 157, but it turned out to be umpire aleem dar's call on review.


The partnership between the two batters consisted of more than 500 balls which is the biggest partnership of the fourth innings in terms of balls in any Test.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Earlier, India's Rahul Dravid and Deep Dasgupta's pair played 500 balls in the last innings.
The Indian duo had achived the feat against South Africa in 2001.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

earlier, india's rahul dravid and deep dasgupta's pair played 500 balls in the last innings. the partnership between the two batters consisted of more than 500 balls which is the biggest partnership of the fourth innings in terms of balls in any test.


Concerned about the fitness of fast bowler Shaheen Shah Afridi, former Pakistan cricketer Mohammad Hafeez has advised the star pacer to think about his workload and manage it properly.
Mohammad Hafeez said while speaking to the media in Sri Lanka where he has gone to play Dhaka Premier League 2022.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"I think Shaheen Afridi has to take care of his fitness, he also has to think about his workload, he doesn't need to play every match. Especially he shouldn't play leagues," the right-handed batter advised the PSL winning captain.
Afridi is a permanent member of the Pakistani team in all three formats and is playing continuously with the national team. 
Hafeez said that Shaheen is an emerging star of international cricket, he did very good things as the captain of Lahore Qalandars in the PSL.
“He has made a good start in his captaincy career by making Lahore Qalandars champions in the league.”
Hafeez said that he is not thinking about his future and coaching at the moment.
“I prefer moving forward in a particular way, I will definitely think about coaching but at the moment I am enjoying cricket.”

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"i think shaheen afridi has to take care of his fitness, he also has to think about his workload, he doesn't need to play every match. hafeez said that shaheen is an emerging star of international cricket, he did very good things as the captain of lahore qalandars in the psl. concerned about the fitness of fast bowler shaheen shah afridi, former pakistan cricketer mohammad hafeez has advised the star pacer to think about his workload and manage it properly. mohammad hafeez said while speaking to the media in sri lanka where he has gone to play dhaka premier league 2022. especially he shouldn't play leagues," the right-handed batter advised the psl winning captain.


KARACHI: Skipper Babar Azam hopes Pakistan's batters can keep faith in their abilities as they attempt to create history by chasing the highest-ever target in Test cricket to beat Australia in Karachi.
Azam cracked a fighting century with great support from opener Abdullah Shafique Tuesday as Pakistan thwarted Australia's hopes of a quick win in the second Test in Karachi.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Set a daunting 506-run target, Azam knocked his sixth Test century — and second against Australia — to guide Pakistan to 192-2 and raise hopes of an improbable victory, or even a fighting draw.
At the close Azam was unbeaten on 102 and Shafique 71 as the pair added 171 for the third wicket, leaving the home team needing another 314 runs in the 90 overs of the final day for a win, or bat out three sessions for the draw.
"The match hasn't finished yet," Azam told the host broadcasters. "We need to continue batting like this and keep the belief (to create history).
"Definitely, my hundred was needed by the team and my plan was to build a partnership, which Shafique and I did, but we need to continue like this (on Wednesday)."
Pakistan lost Imam-ul-Haq (one) and Azhar Ali (six) before Shafique and Azam led the fightback, leaving Australia wicketless in the last session -- despite taking the second new ball after 80 overs.
Azam top-edged a sweep off spinner Mitchell Swepson towards short fine-leg for two to reach the three-figure mark, his first in 21 innings since his 143 against Bangladesh in Rawalpindi in February 2020.
His hundred came in 247 minutes with 12 boundaries.
Shafique was as solid as his skipper, having so far hit four boundaries and a six as he and Azam batted defiantly for 265 minutes.
No team has ever chased more than the 418-7 the West Indies amassed against Australia at Antigua in 2003, while Pakistan's highest successful chase was 377 against Sri Lanka at Pallekele in 2015.
Australia, resuming their second innings at 81-1, batted for just 26 minutes at the start of play to add 16 runs before declaring on 97-2.
The visitors scored 556-9 declared in their first innings then dismissed Pakistan for 148.
The home team had hoped Azhar would anchor the second innings but the senior batsman was trapped lbw by Cameron Green while trying to evade a short-pitched delivery.
Azhar chose not to review as he trudged off but was left to regret it as television replays showed he had gloved the ball.
At 21-2, Australia seemed to have the upper edge and were looking to take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series but their efforts were thwarted by a slow turning pitch and the brilliance of Pakistan's batting pair.
Australia could have had Shafique on 20 but the experienced Steve Smith spilled a straightforward catch in the slips off pacer Pat Cummins.
Australia's batting coach Michael Di Venuto described the chance as part of the game.
"Smith has good hands and he takes nine out of ten such catches but that happens," said Di Venuto.
"It's going to be hard work (tomorrow) and since there is variable bounce on the pitch, it's going to be interesting."
Despite cracks on the National Cricket Stadium pitch, Australian spinners Nathan Lyon and Swepson failed to get vicious turn.
Earlier, Haq and Shafique were all caution as it took them until the fifth over to score the first run before Lyon struck.
The in-form Haq, who scored a hundred in each innings of the drawn first Test in Rawalpindi, was trapped lbw for one as he failed to connect with a sliding delivery.
Earlier, Marnus Labuschagne was bowled off a sharp Shaheen Shah Afridi delivery for 44 to prompt skipper Cummins to call Australia's innings to a close with first-innings century-maker Usman Khawaja, who was born in Pakistan, remaining 44 not out.
Australia are on their first tour of Pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to tour the country because of security fears.

azam cracked a fighting century with great support from opener abdullah shafique tuesday as pakistan thwarted australia's hopes of a quick win in the second test in karachi. karachi: skipper babar azam hopes pakistan's batters can keep faith in their abilities as they attempt to create history by chasing the highest-ever target in test cricket to beat australia in karachi. pakistan lost imam-ul-haq (one) and azhar ali (six) before shafique and azam led the fightback, leaving australia wicketless in the last session -- despite taking the second new ball after 80 overs. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

set a daunting 506-run target, azam knocked his sixth test century — and second against australia — to guide pakistan to 192-2 and raise hopes of an improbable victory, or even a fighting draw. australia are on their first tour of pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to tour the country because of security fears. the in-form haq, who scored a hundred in each innings of the drawn first test in rawalpindi, was trapped lbw for one as he failed to connect with a sliding delivery. "we need to continue batting like this and keep the belief (to create history). australia's batting coach michael di venuto described the chance as part of the game. shafique was as solid as his skipper, having so far hit four boundaries and a six as he and azam batted defiantly for 265 minutes. no team has ever chased more than the 418-7 the west indies amassed against australia at antigua in 2003, while pakistan's highest successful chase was 377 against sri lanka at pallekele in 2015.
australia, resuming their second innings at 81-1, batted for just 26 minutes at the start of play to add 16 runs before declaring on 97-2.
the visitors scored 556-9 declared in their first innings then dismissed pakistan for 148.
the home team had hoped azhar would anchor the second innings but the senior batsman was trapped lbw by cameron green while trying to evade a short-pitched delivery. earlier, haq and shafique were all caution as it took them until the fifth over to score the first run before lyon struck. azam top-edged a sweep off spinner mitchell swepson towards short fine-leg for two to reach the three-figure mark, his first in 21 innings since his 143 against bangladesh in rawalpindi in february 2020.
his hundred came in 247 minutes with 12 boundaries. earlier, marnus labuschagne was bowled off a sharp shaheen shah afridi delivery for 44 to prompt skipper cummins to call australia's innings to a close with first-innings century-maker usman khawaja, who was born in pakistan, remaining 44 not out. "the match hasn't finished yet," azam told the host broadcasters.


Pakistan were 18-1 at lunch on the fourth day, with Abdullah Shafique unbeaten on 14 and Azhar Ali three on a low-bouncing and turning National Stadium pitch.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

The hosts need another 488 runs to win -- the highest successful fourth innings run chase in Test history is 418 -- or more likely need to survive five sessions for a draw.
Australia, resuming their second innings at 81-1, batted for just 26 minutes at the start of play to add 16 runs before declaring on 97-2 when the wicket of Marnus Labsuchagne fell.
The visitors scored 556-9 declared in their first innings then dismissed Pakistan for 148.
Haq and Shafique were all caution as it took them until the fifth over to score the first run, before off-spinner Nathan Lyon struck.
The in-form Haq, who scored a hundred in each innings of the drawn first Test in Rawalpindi, was trapped lbw for one as he failed to connect with a sliding delivery.
Earlier, Labuschagne was bowled off a sharp Shaheen Shah Afridi delivery for 44 to prompt captain Pat Cummins to call the innings to a close with first-innings century-maker Usman Khawaja, who was born in Pakistan, remaining 44 not out.
Australia are on their first tour of Pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to tour the country because of security fears.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

the hosts need another 488 runs to win -- the highest successful fourth innings run chase in test history is 418 -- or more likely need to survive five sessions for a draw. the visitors scored 556-9 declared in their first innings then dismissed pakistan for 148.
haq and shafique were all caution as it took them until the fifth over to score the first run, before off-spinner nathan lyon struck. australia are on their first tour of pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to tour the country because of security fears. the in-form haq, who scored a hundred in each innings of the drawn first test in rawalpindi, was trapped lbw for one as he failed to connect with a sliding delivery. pakistan were 18-1 at lunch on the fourth day, with abdullah shafique unbeaten on 14 and azhar ali three on a low-bouncing and turning national stadium pitch.


KARACHI: Spearhead Mitchell Starc led the Australian pace attack with three wickets Monday to put the visitors in the driving seat on day three of the second Test against Pakistan in Karachi.
The lanky left-armer used reverse swing to devastating effect, taking 3-29 as Pakistan were bundled out for a paltry 148 in reply to Australia's mammoth first innings of 556-9 declared.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Despite a big 408-run lead, Australia did not enforce the follow-on and at close were 81-1 in their second innings to take their lead to 489 with nine wickets intact.
Opener Usman Khawaja was unbeaten on 35 and Marnus Labuschagne 37 after David Warner fell to Hasan Ali for seven.
Australia have two full days to enforce a big win and take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series on their first tour of Pakistan for 24 years.
Pakistan's collapse in 53 overs was in complete contrast to Australia, who stayed out for 189 overs, plundering runs at ease.
Starc, who went wicketless in the drawn first Test in Rawalpindi last week, had Azhar Ali (14), Fawad Alam (nought) and Sajid Khan (five) out as Pakistan lost six wickets in the space of 62 runs after being 38-1 at lunch.
Debutant leg-spinner Mitchell Swepson finished with 2-32 including the wicket of Azam, who miscued a drive and was caught at long-off.
It all went wrong in the first over after lunch when Haq — who scored twin centuries in the opening Test — fell to a rash shot, lofting spinner Nathan Lyon to skipper Pat Cummins at mid-on.
Starc then had Azhar caught in the slips and next ball trapped Alam with a sharp in-dipping yorker. He almost had a hat-trick when Mohammad Rizwan was beaten neck and crop, but didn't edge.
Rizwan didn't last long, however, as he edged Cummins for wicketkeeper Alex Carey to take a simple catch on six, and next over Cameron Green trapped Faheem Ashraf leg before for four.
Starc then had Sajid caught behind, taking 3-24 in 10 incisive overs as wickets fell in a cluster, in contrast to Australia's run-spree on a low bounce National Cricket Stadium pitch.
Earlier, opener Abdullah Shafique was run out for 13 as Pakistan faltered at the start.
Shafique, who hit a brilliant unbeaten century in Rawalpindi, had made 13 of Pakistan's 26-run opening stand when he failed to beat Swepson's direct throw from point after being called for a sharp single.
Australia had resumed the third day on 505-8 as Cummins opted to bat on.
Pakistan struck with the second ball of the day when fast bowler Shaheen Shah Afridi had Starc caught at cover by Azhar without adding to his overnight 28.
But that was all the success they had as Cummins, who finished on 34 not out, added a brisk 51 for the ninth wicket with Swepson (15) before declaring.
All-rounder Ashraf was the pick of the attack with his 2-55 from 21 overs, while off-spinner Sajid Khan took 2-167 from 57 overs.

starc then had azhar caught in the slips and next ball trapped alam with a sharp in-dipping yorker. karachi: spearhead mitchell starc led the australian pace attack with three wickets monday to put the visitors in the driving seat on day three of the second test against pakistan in karachi. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

despite a big 408-run lead, australia did not enforce the follow-on and at close were 81-1 in their second innings to take their lead to 489 with nine wickets intact. pakistan's collapse in 53 overs was in complete contrast to australia, who stayed out for 189 overs, plundering runs at ease. starc, who went wicketless in the drawn first test in rawalpindi last week, had azhar ali (14), fawad alam (nought) and sajid khan (five) out as pakistan lost six wickets in the space of 62 runs after being 38-1 at lunch. starc then had sajid caught behind, taking 3-24 in 10 incisive overs as wickets fell in a cluster, in contrast to australia's run-spree on a low bounce national cricket stadium pitch. earlier, opener abdullah shafique was run out for 13 as pakistan faltered at the start. australia have two full days to enforce a big win and take a 1-0 lead in the three-match series on their first tour of pakistan for 24 years. australia had resumed the third day on 505-8 as cummins opted to bat on. all-rounder ashraf was the pick of the attack with his 2-55 from 21 overs, while off-spinner sajid khan took 2-167 from 57 overs. rizwan didn't last long, however, as he edged cummins for wicketkeeper alex carey to take a simple catch on six, and next over cameron green trapped faheem ashraf leg before for four.


KARACHI: Pakistan were dismissed for 148 on Monday in response to Australia’s 556 on the third day of the second Test at Karachi’s National Stadium. 
The Karachi Test has become a nightmare for the Pakistan Cricket team as the Green Shirts’ batters, and also the bowlers looked hapless and it seemed that they were playing at some away venue instead of playing at their strongest fort.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

All the Pakistani players were bowled out for 148 runs, playing 53 overs and surviving only 264 minutes, in response to Australia’s 559 that came from 189 minutes and 792 minutes on a venue where Australia has never won a Test match.
The first-innings deficit of 408 runs in the Karachi Test is Pakistan’s biggest first innings deficit at any home venue since the country got the Test status. 
Before this, Pakistan’s heaviest first innings deficit at home, batting 2nd in Tests, was 268 runs when they had scored 407 runs in response to India’s 675/5 against India in Multan in 2004. The biggest lead they conceded at home in the first innings after batting 1st in a Test was 376 when India had scored 600 in response to Pakistan’s 224 at Rawalpindi Test in 2004.
Earlier, Australia batted for 189 overs before declaring and letting Pakistan bat in Karachi Test. This is Australia’s longest innings at any Asian venue in 42 years. This is also the longest innings any visiting side has batted at National Stadium in 60 years.

the first-innings deficit of 408 runs in the karachi test is pakistan’s biggest first innings deficit at any home venue since the country got the test status. this is australia’s longest innings at any asian venue in 42 years. before this, pakistan’s heaviest first innings deficit at home, batting 2nd in tests, was 268 runs when they had scored 407 runs in response to india’s 675/5 against india in multan in 2004. the biggest lead they conceded at home in the first innings after batting 1st in a test was 376 when india had scored 600 in response to pakistan’s 224 at rawalpindi test in 2004.
earlier, australia batted for 189 overs before declaring and letting pakistan bat in karachi test. karachi: pakistan were dismissed for 148 on monday in response to australia’s 556 on the third day of the second test at karachi’s national stadium. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

all the pakistani players were bowled out for 148 runs, playing 53 overs and surviving only 264 minutes, in response to australia’s 559 that came from 189 minutes and 792 minutes on a venue where australia has never won a test match.


When players walked off for lunch, the Pakistan-born Khawaja was 155 not out and Travis Head 14 as Australia added 81 after resuming at 251-3 on a slow turning National Stadium pitch.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Khawaja added 54 for the fourth wicket with nightwatchman Nathan Lyon to frustrate the Pakistan bowlers who were looking for early wickets to halt Australia's progress.
All-rounder Faheem Ashraf could have dismissed Lyon on 31 but failed to hold on to a return catch to his left.
Lyon capitalised on the reprieve with a sweetly-timed boundary but Ashraf had the last laugh three overs later, with a delivery that clattered into the stumps after brushing the Australian's pads.
Lyon, dropped on nought by Imam-ul-Haq off pace bowler Shaheen Shah Afridi on Saturday, hit five boundaries during his stubborn knock of 38.
Khawaja was unflustered and pushed Hasan Ali for a single to complete his 150. At lunch he had batted for 406 minutes, hitting 15 fours and one six.
Ashraf was Pakistan's best bowler with figure of 2-47, while Hasan had 1-45.
Australia, touring Pakistan for the first time in 24 years, will play three Tests, three one-day internationals and a single Twenty20 international on the tour.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

khawaja added 54 for the fourth wicket with nightwatchman nathan lyon to frustrate the pakistan bowlers who were looking for early wickets to halt australia's progress. ashraf was pakistan's best bowler with figure of 2-47, while hasan had 1-45.
australia, touring pakistan for the first time in 24 years, will play three tests, three one-day internationals and a single twenty20 international on the tour. lyon, dropped on nought by imam-ul-haq off pace bowler shaheen shah afridi on saturday, hit five boundaries during his stubborn knock of 38.
khawaja was unflustered and pushed hasan ali for a single to complete his 150. at lunch he had batted for 406 minutes, hitting 15 fours and one six. all-rounder faheem ashraf could have dismissed lyon on 31 but failed to hold on to a return catch to his left.


KARACHI: Opener Usman Khawaja raced to a first Test century in the country of his birth on Saturday as Australia ended the opening day of the second Test against Pakistan on a commanding 251-3 in Karachi.
The 35-year-old has made the most of a recall to the national side, missing out on a hundred in the first Test at Rawalpindi by three runs after scoring centuries in both innings in his return match against England.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

His unbeaten 127 included 13 boundaries and a six with Steve Smith (72) providing support at the other end until he fell to a sharp Hasan Ali delivery with seven balls left in the day.
The ball made Smith play and barely carried to slip where Faheem Ashraf pounced to his left for a brilliant grab.
Pakistan could have claimed another wicket on the day's final ball but Imam-ul-Haq put down nightwatchman Nathan Lyon at short leg off Shaheen Shah Afridi.
Australian captain Pat Cummins won the toss and elected to bat on a dry pitch, and for a brief moment at the end of the first session, his decision appeared questionable when the visitors lost two quick wickets.
All-rounder Faheem Ashraf — recalled after missing the first Test due to injury — snagged the first breakthrough, getting the ball to nip away and drawing an edge from David Warner (36) straight into the gloves of keeper Mohammad Rizwan.
Marnus Labuschagne was run out for nought nine deliveries later. But from then till the second last over of the day Australia looked in complete control with Khawaja leading the charge.
He pushed spinner Sajid Khan for a sharp single towards square leg to reach the landmark, punching the air to celebrate his tenth Test ton — drawing applause from a crowd of 10,000 people at the National Stadium.
He first put on a solid 82-run stand for the opening wicket with Warner, who looked dangerous and greeted Sajid into the attack with two sixes.
Then Khawaja repaired the innings alongside Smith, who struck seven boundaries in a cautious 35th Test half-century.
The duo frustrated Pakistan's attack forcing spinners Nauman Ali and Sajid to resort to a negative leg-side line to contain the runs and only 36 were scored in the hour after tea in 17 overs.
Pakistan skipper Babar Azam came on to bowl and used part-timer Azhar Ali on the other end to complete the 80 overs before the second new ball, with the score at 235-2.
Australia made one change for the match, with leg-spinner Mitchell Swepson making his Test debut in place of pacer Josh Hazlewood, while Pakistan have brought in Hasan Ali and Ashraf.
Australia are on their first tour of Pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to visit the country over security fears.
The third and final Test is in Lahore from March 21-25.

karachi: opener usman khawaja raced to a first test century in the country of his birth on saturday as australia ended the opening day of the second test against pakistan on a commanding 251-3 in karachi. then khawaja repaired the innings alongside smith, who struck seven boundaries in a cautious 35th test half-century. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

his unbeaten 127 included 13 boundaries and a six with steve smith (72) providing support at the other end until he fell to a sharp hasan ali delivery with seven balls left in the day. pakistan could have claimed another wicket on the day's final ball but imam-ul-haq put down nightwatchman nathan lyon at short leg off shaheen shah afridi. he first put on a solid 82-run stand for the opening wicket with warner, who looked dangerous and greeted sajid into the attack with two sixes. but from then till the second last over of the day australia looked in complete control with khawaja leading the charge. pakistan skipper babar azam came on to bowl and used part-timer azhar ali on the other end to complete the 80 overs before the second new ball, with the score at 235-2.
australia made one change for the match, with leg-spinner mitchell swepson making his test debut in place of pacer josh hazlewood, while pakistan have brought in hasan ali and ashraf. australia are on their first tour of pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to visit the country over security fears. the ball made smith play and barely carried to slip where faheem ashraf pounced to his left for a brilliant grab. all-rounder faheem ashraf — recalled after missing the first test due to injury — snagged the first breakthrough, getting the ball to nip away and drawing an edge from david warner (36) straight into the gloves of keeper mohammad rizwan.


The historic occasion — Australia's first Test in Pakistan since 1998 — was marred by a pitch described as "dead" by vice-captain Steve Smith as Pakistan piled up 728 runs for the loss of just four wickets, and one of those was a run out.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Openers Imam-ul-Haq and Abdullah Shafique both made maiden Test hundreds — Imam scoring one in each innings — while senior batsman Azhar Ali also passed three figures during five attritional days.
The series now moves to Karachi's National Stadium, a favourite hunting ground for Pakistan, who have won 23 of the 43 Tests they have played there while losing only twice.
Australia have never won in Karachi in eight attempts, losing five and drawing three.
With conditions sultry, the pitch is likely to help the slow bowlers, prompting Australia to rest at least one of their famed pace trio of captain Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood.
'Still feeling fresh'
"From our intel in Karachi and Lahore, a second spinner is probably the way to go but we'll have a look," said Cummins, hinting that leg-spinner Mitchell Swepson, 28, could make his Test debut alongside veteran off-spinner Nathan Lyon.
"Just about everyone got into the series," said Cummins, whose side made 459 in their only innings in Rawalpindi without anyone making a century.
"All the batters got some runs. We're still feeling relatively fresh going into the game."
Pace bowler Hasan Ali, who missed the first Test through injury, is likely to replace Naseem Shah for the hosts.
But Faheem Ashraf, who missed the first Test through injury, has now been sidelined with Covid.
Left-arm spinner Nauman Ali, who took a career best 6-107 in Rawalpindi, was Pakistan's match-winner in Karachi last year on debut against South Africa with seven wickets.
"The way our batters played and how Nauman bowled in difficult conditions was good," said Pakistan captain Babar Azam of his side's performance in the first Test of the three-match series.
"There were some positives to take for us. We have some of our fast bowlers available for the second Test so we should be stronger in that department."
Ramiz Raja, the Pakistan Cricket Board chairman, defended the flat pitch in Rawalpindi.
"I understand the frustration of the fans but there is a lot of cricket still remaining to be played," said Raja.
"Just for the heck of it, we can't prepare a fast pitch or a bouncy pitch and put the game in Australia's lap."
The third and final Test takes place in Lahore from March 21-25.
Squad:
Pakistan (from): Babar Azam (capt), Mohammad Rizwan, Abdullah Shafique, Azhar Ali, Fawad Alam, Iftikhar Ahmed, Imam-ul-Haq, Nauman Ali, Sajid Khan, Saud Shakeel, Shaheen Shah Afridi, Shan Masood, Hasan Ali, Zahid Mahmood, Naseem Shah
Australia (from): Pat Cummins (capt), Ashton Agar, Scott Boland, Alex Carey, Cameron Green, Marcus Harris, Josh Hazlewood, Travis Head, Josh Inglis, Usman Khawaja, Marnus Labuschagne, Nathan Lyon, Mitchell Marsh, Mark Steketee, Steven Smith, Mitchell Starc, Mitchell Swepson, David Warner
Officials:
Umpires: Aleem Dar (PAK) and Ahsan Raza (PAK)
TV umpire: Rashid Riaz (PAK)
Match referee: Ranjan Madugalle (SRI)

pace bowler hasan ali, who missed the first test through injury, is likely to replace naseem shah for the hosts. "the way our batters played and how nauman bowled in difficult conditions was good," said pakistan captain babar azam of his side's performance in the first test of the three-match series. ramiz raja, the pakistan cricket board chairman, defended the flat pitch in rawalpindi. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

openers imam-ul-haq and abdullah shafique both made maiden test hundreds — imam scoring one in each innings — while senior batsman azhar ali also passed three figures during five attritional days. with conditions sultry, the pitch is likely to help the slow bowlers, prompting australia to rest at least one of their famed pace trio of captain pat cummins, mitchell starc and josh hazlewood. the third and final test takes place in lahore from march 21-25.
squad:
pakistan (from): babar azam (capt), mohammad rizwan, abdullah shafique, azhar ali, fawad alam, iftikhar ahmed, imam-ul-haq, nauman ali, sajid khan, saud shakeel, shaheen shah afridi, shan masood, hasan ali, zahid mahmood, naseem shah
australia (from): pat cummins (capt), ashton agar, scott boland, alex carey, cameron green, marcus harris, josh hazlewood, travis head, josh inglis, usman khawaja, marnus labuschagne, nathan lyon, mitchell marsh, mark steketee, steven smith, mitchell starc, mitchell swepson, david warner
officials:
umpires: aleem dar (pak) and ahsan raza (pak)
tv umpire: rashid riaz (pak)
match referee: ranjan madugalle (sri) australia have never won in karachi in eight attempts, losing five and drawing three. left-arm spinner nauman ali, who took a career best 6-107 in rawalpindi, was pakistan's match-winner in karachi last year on debut against south africa with seven wickets. 'still feeling fresh'
"from our intel in karachi and lahore, a second spinner is probably the way to go but we'll have a look," said cummins, hinting that leg-spinner mitchell swepson, 28, could make his test debut alongside veteran off-spinner nathan lyon. we're still feeling relatively fresh going into the game." "all the batters got some runs. "just about everyone got into the series," said cummins, whose side made 459 in their only innings in rawalpindi without anyone making a century.


RAWALPINDI: Pakistan opener Imam-ul-Haq has shed some of the burden of being the nephew of a legend with a century in each innings against Australia in the drawn first Test.
The 26-year-old’s uncle is former Pakistan captain Inzamam-ul-Haq, but Imam’s exploits in the drawn Rawalpindi Test have now given him recognition in his own right.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

The pitch may have been a batting-friendly flat track, but Imam still had to show immense concentration and discipline for knocks of 157 and 111 not out.
In doing so he became the 10th Pakistan batsman to score a century in each innings of a Test, and only the fourth against Australia, behind former captains Younis Khan, Misbah-ul-Haq and Azhar Ali.
The criticism usually circles back to suggestions he only has a place in the side through the family name.
"I don’t care what people say here and there and never lose heart," Imam said after scoring his maiden Test century on Friday.
"I want to take challenges and excel."
Despite being cricket royalty Imam’s journey hasn’t been easy.
His uncle is Pakistan’s third-highest Test run-scorer with 8,830 and most prolific in one-day internationals, 11,701.
Despite obvious natural talent Imam was labelled "parchi" -- an Urdu term used for someone given undue favouritism -- and not helped by the fact that he was first picked in 2018 when his uncle was the chief selector.
Nepotism at play?
Imam had the game, most fans agreed, but was nepotism at play?
The bespectacled Imam was Pakistan’s highest run-getter in the 2014 Under-19 World Cup -- where Pakistan lost in the final -- finishing with 382 runs in six games.
He also showed form in an A Series against Bangladesh, before scoring 848 in 11 matches in the 2016-17 domestic season.
Inzamam insisted he wasn’t playing family favourites, saying his nephew was selected on the advice of coaches Mickey Arthur and Grant Flower.
"Mickey and Grant came to me and stressed that they wanted him for the team, so only after that he was selected," he said at the time.
The youngster made an instant impact, scoring a hundred on his ODI debut against Sri Lanka in Abu Dhabi in 2017.
His first Test, in 2018, was a match-winning 74 not out against Ireland when Pakistan were teetering at 14-3, chasing 160.
While Imam’s ODI form only improved, his Test fortunes slumped and he was dropped after failing in Australia in 2019.
But on the back of two hundreds in domestic cricket, Imam returned to the fold -- and made the chance count in Rawalpindi.
"Every time I failed they started trolling me but I have a resolve that I will answer them with my bat, with my runs," he said.
"I want to make my own name."

nepotism at play? the 26-year-old’s uncle is former pakistan captain inzamam-ul-haq, but imam’s exploits in the drawn rawalpindi test have now given him recognition in his own right. despite being cricket royalty imam’s journey hasn’t been easy. rawalpindi: pakistan opener imam-ul-haq has shed some of the burden of being the nephew of a legend with a century in each innings against australia in the drawn first test. "i don’t care what people say here and there and never lose heart," imam said after scoring his maiden test century on friday. imam had the game, most fans agreed, but was nepotism at play? the bespectacled imam was pakistan’s highest run-getter in the 2014 under-19 world cup -- where pakistan lost in the final -- finishing with 382 runs in six games. the youngster made an instant impact, scoring a hundred on his odi debut against sri lanka in abu dhabi in 2017.
his first test, in 2018, was a match-winning 74 not out against ireland when pakistan were teetering at 14-3, chasing 160.
while imam’s odi form only improved, his test fortunes slumped and he was dropped after failing in australia in 2019.
but on the back of two hundreds in domestic cricket, imam returned to the fold -- and made the chance count in rawalpindi. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

the pitch may have been a batting-friendly flat track, but imam still had to show immense concentration and discipline for knocks of 157 and 111 not out. in doing so he became the 10th pakistan batsman to score a century in each innings of a test, and only the fourth against australia, behind former captains younis khan, misbah-ul-haq and azhar ali. his uncle is pakistan’s third-highest test run-scorer with 8,830 and most prolific in one-day internationals, 11,701.
despite obvious natural talent imam was labelled "parchi" -- an urdu term used for someone given undue favouritism -- and not helped by the fact that he was first picked in 2018 when his uncle was the chief selector.


Haq made an unbeaten 111 following up his 157 in the first innings, while Shafique finished on 136 as Pakistan were 252 without loss when the match ended without a result.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Australia scored 459 in reply to Pakistan’s first innings score of 476-4 declared.
Australia’s first Test on Pakistan soil since 1998 -- they previously declined to visit on security grounds -- was ultimately spoiled by a flat Rawalpindi Cricket Stadium pitch.
A combined total of 1,187 runs were scored for just 14 wickets over five days as the famed Australian pace trio of Pat Cummins, Mitchell Starc and Josh Hazlewood -- with 674 Test wickets between them before this match -- got just one more.
With a draw assured, the Pakistan openers took the opportunity for batting practice ahead of the second Test in Karachi starting Saturday.
In doing so, they became the first Pakistan pair to put on a century opening stand in both innings of a Test against Australia after teaming up for 105 on Friday.
Shafique was the first to reach his century, pushing seamer Cameron Green for a single to reach the mark in 209 minutes. In all, he hit 15 boundaries and a six.
Haq, who was playing his first Test since December 2019, pushed part-timer Travis Head for two to complete his century in 276 minutes.
Their stand is Pakistan’s highest for the first wicket against Australia in all Tests, bettering the 149 set by Khalid Ibadullah and Abdul Kadir in Karachi in 1964.
So dominating were the two openers that it became only the first instance in 51 years when Australia conceded 100-plus opening stands in both innings of a Test.
Geoff Boycott and John Edrich of England were the last pair to achieve the feat against Australia, in Adelaide in 1971.
Earlier, left-arm spinner Nauman Ali bowled a nagging line and length to mop up the Australian tail and finished with career-best figures of 6-107 in 38.1 overs -- his third five-wicket haul in eight Tests.
His effort enabled Pakistan to get the last three wickets with the addition of just 10 runs after Australia resumed on 449-7.
Nauman -- whose previous best of 5-35 came on his debut against South Africa in Karachi last year -- dismissed Australian skipper Pat Cummins for eight and Nathan Lyon for three in quick succession.
Left-arm pacer Shaheen Shah Afridi got rid of Starc to finish with figures of 2-88 in 30 overs.  

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

australia scored 459 in reply to pakistan’s first innings score of 476-4 declared. in doing so, they became the first pakistan pair to put on a century opening stand in both innings of a test against australia after teaming up for 105 on friday. their stand is pakistan’s highest for the first wicket against australia in all tests, bettering the 149 set by khalid ibadullah and abdul kadir in karachi in 1964.
so dominating were the two openers that it became only the first instance in 51 years when australia conceded 100-plus opening stands in both innings of a test. haq, who was playing his first test since december 2019, pushed part-timer travis head for two to complete his century in 276 minutes. haq made an unbeaten 111 following up his 157 in the first innings, while shafique finished on 136 as pakistan were 252 without loss when the match ended without a result. australia’s first test on pakistan soil since 1998 -- they previously declined to visit on security grounds -- was ultimately spoiled by a flat rawalpindi cricket stadium pitch. his effort enabled pakistan to get the last three wickets with the addition of just 10 runs after australia resumed on 449-7.
nauman -- whose previous best of 5-35 came on his debut against south africa in karachi last year -- dismissed australian skipper pat cummins for eight and nathan lyon for three in quick succession. shafique was the first to reach his century, pushing seamer cameron green for a single to reach the mark in 209 minutes.


RAWALPINDI: Australia’s renowned cricketer David Warner never misses a chance to entertain the crowd with his dance moves.
A video of Warner dancing while fielding during the fifth day of the 1st Test between Pakistan and Australia is now making the rounds on the internet. 

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/


.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/ rawalpindi: australia’s renowned cricketer david warner never misses a chance to entertain the crowd with his dance moves.


RAWALPINDI: In a major achievement, Abdullah Shafique and Imamul Haq have become Pakistan’s second pair to share century partnerships in both innings of a Test against Australia.
In 2014, Younis Khan and Azhar Ali had shared century partnerships in both innings against the Aussies in UAE.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Imamul Haq and Abdullah Shafique equalled the record of Younis Khan and Azhar Ali on the fifth and final day of the 1st Test of the series at the Rawalpindi Cricket Stadium today (Tuesday). 
Moreover, this is the only third time that a Pakistani opening duo scored century-partnerships in both innings of a Test. 
In 2003, Imran Farhat and Taufeeq Umar shared a century partnership against South Africa in Lahore while in the year 2001, Abdullah and Abid Ali did this against Bangladesh. 
However, England’s Hobbs and Sutcliffe, and Boycott and Edrich shared a century partnership against Australia in 1924 and 1971 respectively. Hutton and Washbrook smashed centuries in partnership twice against Aussies. They shared the century partnership in 1947 and 1948.

they shared the century partnership in 1947 and 1948. in 2014, younis khan and azhar ali had shared century partnerships in both innings against the aussies in uae. rawalpindi: in a major achievement, abdullah shafique and imamul haq have become pakistan’s second pair to share century partnerships in both innings of a test against australia. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

imamul haq and abdullah shafique equalled the record of younis khan and azhar ali on the fifth and final day of the 1st test of the series at the rawalpindi cricket stadium today (tuesday). however, england’s hobbs and sutcliffe, and boycott and edrich shared a century partnership against australia in 1924 and 1971 respectively.


RAWALPINDI: Steve Smith said he was annoyed at missing out on a century Monday as Australia's first Test in Pakistan in nearly a quarter of a century headed for a draw in Rawalpindi.
Mitchell Starc was on 12 and skipper Pat Cummins four as Australia reached 449-7 in reply to Pakistan's first innings total of 476-4 declared.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

But Smith was annoyed with himself for getting out earlier on 78.
"I got a bit greedy with the field they had set. I had worked pretty hard and got myself in a nice position to go on and get a big score."
Australia are on their first tour to Pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to visit over security fears.
Despite no rain forecast for Tuesday, the likelihood of a result in the opening match of the three-Test series looks bleak, barring a Pakistan batting collapse in the second innings on a wicket that still looks full of runs.
Smith believes there would have been a small chance of a result on the final day if not for the hours of play lost to the weather.
"Perhaps if we were five down we might have been able to push a little harder in the morning and potentially set something up for the fourth innings," he said.
But the pitch at Rawalpindi Cricket Stadium has produced 925 runs for just 13 wickets, and is unlikely to yield the spin needed for a result.
Still, Pakistan grabbed five wickets Monday, including that of top-ranked Test batsman Marnus Labuschagne (90) and Smith, with Nauman taking 4-107 in 37 precise overs.
Nauman broke a stubborn fifth-wicket stand of 81 between Smith and Cameron Green (48) by having the young all-rounder caught off a miscued sweep at leg slip by Iftikhar Ahmed.
Australia were looking for quick runs to go ahead in the first innings, but they were further jolted as Nauman dismissed Smith off a mishit sweep that caught the gloves and landed in wicketkeeper Mohammad Rizwan's safe hands.
Smith batted two minutes short of five hours, hitting eight boundaries.
Alex Carey made 19 before he was bowled by quickie Naseem Shah in the fading light.
Earlier, overnight rain had left the outfield at the stadium waterlogged and the umpires only allowed play to start after lunch.
Australia, 271-2 overnight, progressed to 288-2 when Pakistan took the second new ball after 80 overs — and were instantly rewarded.
Left-arm paceman Shaheen Shah Afridi forced an edge off Labuschagne which Abdullah Shafique took diving to his right in the slips.
Labuschagne lasted 190 minutes during which he hit 12 boundaries.
Travis Head, fresh from being man-of-the-series in Australia's 4-0 Ashes win back home in January, hit two boundaries before he miscued a drive off spinner Nauman and was caught behind by Rizwan.
Shaheen (1-80), Naseem (1-89) and Sajid (1-122) were the other successful Pakistan bowlers.
The second Test of the series is in Karachi from March 12-16 and the third in Lahore from March 21-25.

smith batted two minutes short of five hours, hitting eight boundaries. still, pakistan grabbed five wickets monday, including that of top-ranked test batsman marnus labuschagne (90) and smith, with nauman taking 4-107 in 37 precise overs. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

but smith was annoyed with himself for getting out earlier on 78. rawalpindi: steve smith said he was annoyed at missing out on a century monday as australia's first test in pakistan in nearly a quarter of a century headed for a draw in rawalpindi. labuschagne lasted 190 minutes during which he hit 12 boundaries. australia, 271-2 overnight, progressed to 288-2 when pakistan took the second new ball after 80 overs — and were instantly rewarded. australia were looking for quick runs to go ahead in the first innings, but they were further jolted as nauman dismissed smith off a mishit sweep that caught the gloves and landed in wicketkeeper mohammad rizwan's safe hands. despite no rain forecast for tuesday, the likelihood of a result in the opening match of the three-test series looks bleak, barring a pakistan batting collapse in the second innings on a wicket that still looks full of runs. australia are on their first tour to pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to visit over security fears. mitchell starc was on 12 and skipper pat cummins four as australia reached 449-7 in reply to pakistan's first innings total of 476-4 declared. shaheen (1-80), naseem (1-89) and sajid (1-122) were the other successful pakistan bowlers. travis head, fresh from being man-of-the-series in australia's 4-0 ashes win back home in january, hit two boundaries before he miscued a drive off spinner nauman and was caught behind by rizwan. the second test of the series is in karachi from march 12-16 and the third in lahore from march 21-25. earlier, overnight rain had left the outfield at the stadium waterlogged and the umpires only allowed play to start after lunch.


Earlier the play was delayed due to the wet field but after inspecting the gourd at 12:15 pm, the umpires decided to start the play at 1 pm with limited overs,  the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) said in its latest update.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Australia were 271-2, with Marnus Labuschagne undefeated on 69 and Steve Smith on 24, when the umpires took the players off the field due to bad light.
Australia are 205 runs behind Pakistan with eight wickets remaining after the hosts declared on 476-4 on Saturday.
The Aussies are visiting Pakistan for the first time in 24 years, having previously declined to visit due to security concerns. On the current tour, they will play three Tests, as many one-day internationals as possible, and a Twenty20 international.
Cricket fans express disappointment with pitch 
The majority of cricket fans who turned out for Australia's historic Pindi Test against Pakistan expressed disappointment with the pitch prepared for the series opener, feeling that a more yielding surface would have been suitable for such an event.
According to a The News report, fans who turned in numbers at the stadium over the last three days were surprised by the curator's selection.
"Look, Test cricket is already dwindling in popularity as T20I and other limited-overs forms gain traction. There should be more pitches, not only the one at the Pindi Stadium, for this historic event," Tehseen Ahmad, who travelled from Peshawar specifically to watch both sides in play, remarked.

cricket fans express disappointment with pitch 
the majority of cricket fans who turned out for australia's historic pindi test against pakistan expressed disappointment with the pitch prepared for the series opener, feeling that a more yielding surface would have been suitable for such an event. earlier the play was delayed due to the wet field but after inspecting the gourd at 12:15 pm, the umpires decided to start the play at 1 pm with limited overs,  the pakistan cricket board (pcb) said in its latest update. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

australia were 271-2, with marnus labuschagne undefeated on 69 and steve smith on 24, when the umpires took the players off the field due to bad light. there should be more pitches, not only the one at the pindi stadium, for this historic event," tehseen ahmad, who travelled from peshawar specifically to watch both sides in play, remarked. australia are 205 runs behind pakistan with eight wickets remaining after the hosts declared on 476-4 on saturday. "look, test cricket is already dwindling in popularity as t20i and other limited-overs forms gain traction.


Bad light stopped play and then rain poured down with Australia on 271-2, trailing Pakistan by 205 runs with eight wickets remaining after the home side declared Saturday at 476-4.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Marnus Labuschagne was on 69 and Steve Smith 24, but with rain forecast for the last two days a result is unlikely.
It could still have been a memorable day for Khawaja had he completed his 11th Test century in Pakistan, where he was born in 1986 before his parents emigrated to Australia.
"It was a bit disappointing," said Khawaja, who was caught on 97.
"You come to the change room and feel worse than getting a 20 in some respects."
The left hander was caught at forward short leg by Imam-ul-Haq as he gloved a reverse sweep off left-arm spinner Nauman Ali.
Umpire Aleem Dar ruled him not out, but Pakistan were given the wicket on review.
"My family would have been watching back home... my wife too, who is pregnant with our second child," said Khawaja.
"But if you put that in perspective, then I was not in the Australian team two months ago so I am very grateful and happy that I have contributed to the team's total in the end."
Spin duo defied
Khawaja's 219-minute knock included 15 boundaries, and he put on 156 for the opening wicket with David Warner, who made an attractive 68.
Warner fell in the eighth over after lunch when he missed a square drive and was bowled by off-spinner Sajid Khan.
The pair scored at more than four an over in the morning session, a contrast to the Pakistan first innings which lasted two days and 162 overs.
Pakistan's seam bowling duo and their three slow bowlers found the Rawalpindi Cricket Stadium pitch as unresponsive as the tourists did on the first two days when only four wickets fell, with little spin and no reverse swing.
But Pakistan only had themselves to blame for not making a crucial breakthrough as Khawaja was dropped twice in a clumsy fielding display by the hosts.
Sajid said Warner's wicket was a big one.
"He always bats well against Pakistan so I set him up and got him," he said.
"We weren´t bothered when they batted so fast, and stuck to our plans."
Still, Labuschagne — the current number-one batter in Test rankings — continued where Khawaja and Warner had left off, stroking nine exquisite boundaries.
He and Smith have added 68 for third wicket.
Australia are on their first tour to Pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to tour the country over security fears.
The second Test in in Karachi from March 12-16, and the third in Lahore from March 21-25.

sajid said warner's wicket was a big one. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

marnus labuschagne was on 69 and steve smith 24, but with rain forecast for the last two days a result is unlikely. still, labuschagne — the current number-one batter in test rankings — continued where khawaja and warner had left off, stroking nine exquisite boundaries. "it was a bit disappointing," said khawaja, who was caught on 97. he and smith have added 68 for third wicket. australia are on their first tour to pakistan since 1998, having previously refused to tour the country over security fears. pakistan's seam bowling duo and their three slow bowlers found the rawalpindi cricket stadium pitch as unresponsive as the tourists did on the first two days when only four wickets fell, with little spin and no reverse swing. the pair scored at more than four an over in the morning session, a contrast to the pakistan first innings which lasted two days and 162 overs. umpire aleem dar ruled him not out, but pakistan were given the wicket on review. "my family would have been watching back home... my wife too, who is pregnant with our second child," said khawaja. the second test in in karachi from march 12-16, and the third in lahore from march 21-25. spin duo defied
khawaja's 219-minute knock included 15 boundaries, and he put on 156 for the opening wicket with david warner, who made an attractive 68.
warner fell in the eighth over after lunch when he missed a square drive and was bowled by off-spinner sajid khan.


LAHORE: Ahead of the second Test between Pakistan and Australia, Shaun Tait, the newly-appointed bowling coach of the Green Shirts, will touch down in Karachi on March 9.
Following the coronavirus protocols set by the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB), Shaun Tait, a former Australian fast bowler, will integrate with the Green Shirts after the completion of his three-day isolation period.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

It is pertinent to mention here that the PCB had had appointed former Australian fast bowler Shaun Tait as the bowling coach for one year on February 9. 
According to a PCB statement, Saqlain Mushtaq will continue as head coach for another 12 months, while Mohammad Yousuf will be the batting coach for the Australia series.
Earlier, the board had announced the squad for the Test series against Australia, including Haris Rauf and Shan Masood in place of Bilal Asif and Abid Ali.
The board had also announced to hire foreign coaches for the national team and an advertisement was also published in newspapers seeking applications from interested candidates but the process could not be completed in time.
The men's cricket team is without permanent coaching staff since September 2021 when Misbah-ul-Haq and Waqar Younis stepped down due to differences over the team selection for the T20 World Cup 2021.
Who is Shaun Tait?
Shaun Tait had announced his retirement from all forms of the game in 2017 due to persistent elbow injuries.
Tait had retired from first-class cricket in 2009 and one-day internationals in 2011.
The former fast bowler was instrumental in Australia's 2007 World Cup triumph in West Indies, where he was the joint-second highest wicket-taker with 23 dismissals in the tournament.
He represented Australia in three tests, 35 ODIs and 21 T20s and made his last international appearance against India in the shortest format at Sydney last year.

lahore: ahead of the second test between pakistan and australia, shaun tait, the newly-appointed bowling coach of the green shirts, will touch down in karachi on march 9.
following the coronavirus protocols set by the pakistan cricket board (pcb), shaun tait, a former australian fast bowler, will integrate with the green shirts after the completion of his three-day isolation period. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

it is pertinent to mention here that the pcb had had appointed former australian fast bowler shaun tait as the bowling coach for one year on february 9. 
according to a pcb statement, saqlain mushtaq will continue as head coach for another 12 months, while mohammad yousuf will be the batting coach for the australia series. shaun tait had announced his retirement from all forms of the game in 2017 due to persistent elbow injuries. the men's cricket team is without permanent coaching staff since september 2021 when misbah-ul-haq and waqar younis stepped down due to differences over the team selection for the t20 world cup 2021.
who is shaun tait? tait had retired from first-class cricket in 2009 and one-day internationals in 2011.
the former fast bowler was instrumental in australia's 2007 world cup triumph in west indies, where he was the joint-second highest wicket-taker with 23 dismissals in the tournament.


Police said late Saturday he would be flown from Koh Samui to nearby Surat Thani on Sunday for an autopsy, before being transported home to Australia.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

The "King" of spin's death sparked a global outpouring of grief from prime ministers, rock stars and fellow players, an acknowledgement that the Melbourne native transcended his sport.
Warne -- one of the greatest Test cricketers of all time -- was found unresponsive in his luxury villa at the Samujana resort on Friday evening after failing to meet friends.
"Despite the best efforts of medical staff, he could not be revived," a statement from his management company said.
His body was brought to the Thai International Hospital Samui at about 6:00 pm (1100 GMT).
"No foul play was suspected at the scene based on our investigation," Thai police told AFP.
At an evening press conference, local police chief Yutthana Sirisombat said relatives had "already coordinated with the Australian Embassy so that right after the autopsy's finished, they will take his body back to Australia".
Warne had asthma and "had seen doctors regarding a heart condition prior to his death", he said, adding relatives said the player had previously suffered chest pain.
Sirisombat also said "no drug substance was detected in Warne's body," without giving further details.
As Australia awoke to the news on Saturday, fans laid flowers and other offerings -- among them a meat pie and cigarettes -- at the Melbourne Cricket Ground, where there is a statue in Warne's honour.
Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison called Warne "one of our nation's greatest characters" and announced he would receive a full state funeral.
Current players -- who have led emotional tributes -- took to the field against Pakistan in Rawalpindi, with both sides observing a minute's silence and sporting black armbands.
Speaking outside the police station on Koh Samui, Andrew Neophitou, a close friend of Warne, said: "We really just want to get Shane home, that's all it is."
- Spin pioneer -
Credited with reviving the art of leg-spin, Warne was part of a dominant Australian Test team in the 1990s and 2000s and helped his country win the 1999 limited-overs World Cup.
A larger-than-life character, his tally of 708 Test wickets has been surpassed only by fellow spinner Muttiah Muralitharan.
Australian captain Pat Cummins said he was "a hero" to the current generation of cricketers.
"The loss that we are all trying to wrap our heads around is huge," he said.
Warne's inestimable impact was reflected by his inclusion in a list of the Wisden Cricketers of the 20th Century, alongside Don Bradman, Garfield Sobers, Jack Hobbs and Viv Richards.
Bursting onto the scene as a brash young player with a shock of blond hair, Warne became almost as well known for his colourful life away from cricket as he was for his exploits on the field.
The first bowler to take 700 Test wickets with an assortment of leg-breaks, googlies, flippers and his own "zooters", Warne retired from Australia duty in 2007 following a 5-0 series win at home to arch-rivals England.
He played 145 Tests in total over a 15-year career, taking 708 wickets, and was also a useful lower-order batsman, with a highest Test score of 99.
- 'An honour' -
Following his international retirement, Warne continued to star on the Twenty20 franchise circuit, appearing for Rajasthan Royals in the Indian Premier League and his hometown Melbourne Stars in Australia's Big Bash League.
He subsequently became a highly regarded television commentator and pundit, renowned for his forthright opinions, and was involved with coaching, working individually with current-day leg-spinners.
Warne was divorced from wife Simone Callahan, with whom he had three children.
His former fiancee, actress Elizabeth Hurley, paid tribute on Instagram on Saturday: "I feel like the sun has gone behind a cloud forever," she wrote. "RIP my beloved Lionheart."
India batting great Sachin Tendulkar wrote on Twitter of his ex-rival: "Shocked, stunned & miserable... Will miss you Warnie. There was never a dull moment with you around."
Pakistan leader and ex-player Imran Khan paid his respects to "a bowling genius", while former Australia teammate Adam Gilchrist said he was "numb".
Warne's death also saw tributes from Rolling Stones frontman Mick Jagger, superstar singer Ed Sheeran as well as Australian Hollywood royalty Russell Crowe and Hugh Jackman.

sirisombat also said "no drug substance was detected in warne's body," without giving further details. police said late saturday he would be flown from koh samui to nearby surat thani on sunday for an autopsy, before being transported home to australia. australian captain pat cummins said he was "a hero" to the current generation of cricketers. warne had asthma and "had seen doctors regarding a heart condition prior to his death", he said, adding relatives said the player had previously suffered chest pain. at an evening press conference, local police chief yutthana sirisombat said relatives had "already coordinated with the australian embassy so that right after the autopsy's finished, they will take his body back to australia". .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

the "king" of spin's death sparked a global outpouring of grief from prime ministers, rock stars and fellow players, an acknowledgement that the melbourne native transcended his sport. speaking outside the police station on koh samui, andrew neophitou, a close friend of warne, said: "we really just want to get shane home, that's all it is." australian prime minister scott morrison called warne "one of our nation's greatest characters" and announced he would receive a full state funeral. warne's death also saw tributes from rolling stones frontman mick jagger, superstar singer ed sheeran as well as australian hollywood royalty russell crowe and hugh jackman. the first bowler to take 700 test wickets with an assortment of leg-breaks, googlies, flippers and his own "zooters", warne retired from australia duty in 2007 following a 5-0 series win at home to arch-rivals england. - 'an honour' -
following his international retirement, warne continued to star on the twenty20 franchise circuit, appearing for rajasthan royals in the indian premier league and his hometown melbourne stars in australia's big bash league. pakistan leader and ex-player imran khan paid his respects to "a bowling genius", while former australia teammate adam gilchrist said he was "numb". warne -- one of the greatest test cricketers of all time -- was found unresponsive in his luxury villa at the samujana resort on friday evening after failing to meet friends. his body was brought to the thai international hospital samui at about 6:00 pm (1100 gmt). - spin pioneer -
credited with reviving the art of leg-spin, warne was part of a dominant australian test team in the 1990s and 2000s and helped his country win the 1999 limited-overs world cup. as australia awoke to the news on saturday, fans laid flowers and other offerings -- among them a meat pie and cigarettes -- at the melbourne cricket ground, where there is a statue in warne's honour. bursting onto the scene as a brash young player with a shock of blond hair, warne became almost as well known for his colourful life away from cricket as he was for his exploits on the field. warne was divorced from wife simone callahan, with whom he had three children.


RAWALPINDI: Veteran batsman Azhar Ali and opener Imam-ul-Haq scored big hundreds to help Pakistan dominate Australia Saturday on the second day of the opening Test in Rawalpindi.
Azhar knocked 185 and Haq a career-best 157 to guide Pakistan to 476-4 against a hapless Australian attack on a placid and unresponsive Rawalpindi Cricket Stadium pitch.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Skipper Babar Azam declared the innings an hour before close in the hope of an early wicket, but Australia closed the day on five without loss after bad light ended play with 15 overs remaining.
Left-handed opener Usman Khawaja scored five, while David Warner was yet to get off the mark.
Australia will need another 272 runs to avoid the follow-on against Pakistan's wily spinners who are used to the pitch conditions.
The day began on a sombre note as players paid tribute to the legendary Australian spinner Shane Warne, who died of a suspected heart attack in Thailand Friday, with a minute's silence.
Players from both teams also wore black arm bands, while the handful of early-morning spectators in the stands also stood in respect.
Pakistan added just 57 runs at snail's pace in the morning session.
Haq was the slowest of the Pakistan pair, adding just six runs in the first hour and not hitting a boundary until the 90th minute.
He was lucky to survive a caught-behind appeal on 143 off Lyon that the Australians didn't challenge, when replays showed it hit the bat.
But Azhar put on a solid 208-run stand for the second wicket with Haq and then another 101 for the third wicket with Azam, who was run out for 36.
Azhar was finally caught reverse sweeping part-time spinner Marnus Labuschagne after batting for just four minutes under nine hours.
Mohammad Rizwan (29) and Iftikhar Ahmed (13) remained not out.
For Australia's pace-cum-spin attack it was a hard toil as Labuschagne (1-53), Cummins (1-62) and Nathan Lyon (1-161) were amongst wickets.
Spearheads Mitchell Starc (0-71) and Josh Hazlewood (0-53) went wicket-less.
Pakistan lost only Imam-ul-Haq in the first two sessions as they added 149 runs after resuming the day on 245-1.
Haq completed 150 before he was trapped leg-before by Cummins soon after lunch.
Haq, who unsuccessfully reviewed the decision, batted for nearly nine hours and hit 16 boundaries and two sixes.
Azhar lifted Lyon towards deep mid-on to complete his 19th century in his 92nd Test — his fourth against Australia in 12 matches.
Australia have not toured Pakistan since 1998 for security reasons. The tourists will play three Tests, as many one-day internationals and a single T20I.

pakistan added just 57 runs at snail's pace in the morning session. rawalpindi: veteran batsman azhar ali and opener imam-ul-haq scored big hundreds to help pakistan dominate australia saturday on the second day of the opening test in rawalpindi. australia have not toured pakistan since 1998 for security reasons. azhar knocked 185 and haq a career-best 157 to guide pakistan to 476-4 against a hapless australian attack on a placid and unresponsive rawalpindi cricket stadium pitch. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

skipper babar azam declared the innings an hour before close in the hope of an early wicket, but australia closed the day on five without loss after bad light ended play with 15 overs remaining. australia will need another 272 runs to avoid the follow-on against pakistan's wily spinners who are used to the pitch conditions. pakistan lost only imam-ul-haq in the first two sessions as they added 149 runs after resuming the day on 245-1.
haq completed 150 before he was trapped leg-before by cummins soon after lunch. but azhar put on a solid 208-run stand for the second wicket with haq and then another 101 for the third wicket with azam, who was run out for 36.
azhar was finally caught reverse sweeping part-time spinner marnus labuschagne after batting for just four minutes under nine hours. haq was the slowest of the pakistan pair, adding just six runs in the first hour and not hitting a boundary until the 90th minute. haq, who unsuccessfully reviewed the decision, batted for nearly nine hours and hit 16 boundaries and two sixes. for australia's pace-cum-spin attack it was a hard toil as labuschagne (1-53), cummins (1-62) and nathan lyon (1-161) were amongst wickets. azhar lifted lyon towards deep mid-on to complete his 19th century in his 92nd test — his fourth against australia in 12 matches.


RAWALPINDI: Azhar Ali was five runs away from a century as Pakistan batted at a snail´s pace to reach 302-1 at lunch on the second day of the first Test against Australia in Rawalpindi on Saturday.
The veteran batsman was 95 not out while his partner Imam-ul-Haq was unbeaten on 154 as Pakistan added just 57 runs in the two-hour session after resuming at 245-1.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

The day began on a sombre note as players from both teams paid tribute with a minute´s silence to the legendary Australian spinner Shane Warne, who died of a suspected heart attack in Thailand Friday.
The handful of early-morning spectators in the stands also stood in respect.
Haq was the slowest of the Pakistan pair Saturday morning, adding just six runs in the first hour and not hitting a boundary until the 90th minute.
Haq was lucky to survive a caught-behind appeal on 143 off Lyon the Australians didn´t challenge, when replays showed it hit the bat.
Haq has so far batted for eight hours and 25 minutes, hitting 16 boundaries and two sixes.
Azhar, too, kept the Australian attack at bay during his 358-minute knock studded with seven boundaries and a six.
Lyon is the only successful bowler with 1-106 off 37 overs of toil on the Rawalpindi Cricket Stadium pitch.

haq was the slowest of the pakistan pair saturday morning, adding just six runs in the first hour and not hitting a boundary until the 90th minute. haq has so far batted for eight hours and 25 minutes, hitting 16 boundaries and two sixes. rawalpindi: azhar ali was five runs away from a century as pakistan batted at a snail´s pace to reach 302-1 at lunch on the second day of the first test against australia in rawalpindi on saturday. azhar, too, kept the australian attack at bay during his 358-minute knock studded with seven boundaries and a six. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

the day began on a sombre note as players from both teams paid tribute with a minute´s silence to the legendary australian spinner shane warne, who died of a suspected heart attack in thailand friday. lyon is the only successful bowler with 1-106 off 37 overs of toil on the rawalpindi cricket stadium pitch.


Australian legend Shane Warne passed away at the age of 52.
According to initial reports, the former Australian cricketer died of a suspected heart attack.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

The legendary spinner, who was named as one of Wisden's Five Cricketers of the Century, played 145 Test matches for the Australian team, while he had taken 708 wickets in the longest format of the game during his 15-year career between 1992 and 2007.
"Shane was found unresponsive in his villa and despite the best efforts of medical staff, he could not be revived," the statement read.
"The family requests privacy at this time and will provide further details in due course."
Warne was credited for bowling the "bowl of the century" when he dismissed England batsman Mike Gatting in the 1993 Ashes. 
The ball that was pitched outside leg stump spun immensely to hit Mike Gatting's off stump.
Following the shocking announcement, reactions started pouring in from fellow cricketers and other cricket lovers to pay tribute to the spinning legend.
Pakistan's skipper for all-formats Babar Azam expressed his grievance on social media. 
"Find it hard to believe. Such a devastating loss for the cricket world. He literally inspired generations with his magical leg-spin. You'll forever be missed #ShaneWarne," he wrote.
Former Pakistan team captain Shahid Afridi said that the game of cricket has lost what he considers a "university of leg-spin bowling" today.
" I was inspired by his bowling from the start of my career and it was always a privilege to play against him," he wrote.
Pakistan's experienced all-rounder Shoaib Malik took to his Twitter handle to express his grievance on the shocking news.
"Shocked to hear the news of legendary #ShaneWarne passing away...," he wrote.
Meanwhile, former cricketer Shoaib Akhtar shared his picture with Warne, he wrote: "What a legend. What a man. What a cricketer."
Former Indian cricketer Virender Sehwag called Warne the greatest spinner, saying he "cannot believe it."
"One of the greatest spinners, the man who made spin cool, superstar Shane Warne is no more," he wrote.

meanwhile, former cricketer shoaib akhtar shared his picture with warne, he wrote: "what a legend. what a cricketer." former indian cricketer virender sehwag called warne the greatest spinner, saying he "cannot believe it." australian legend shane warne passed away at the age of 52.
according to initial reports, the former australian cricketer died of a suspected heart attack. "one of the greatest spinners, the man who made spin cool, superstar shane warne is no more," he wrote. "shocked to hear the news of legendary #shanewarne passing away...," he wrote. you'll forever be missed #shanewarne," he wrote. former pakistan team captain shahid afridi said that the game of cricket has lost what he considers a "university of leg-spin bowling" today.
" .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

the legendary spinner, who was named as one of wisden's five cricketers of the century, played 145 test matches for the australian team, while he had taken 708 wickets in the longest format of the game during his 15-year career between 1992 and 2007. the ball that was pitched outside leg stump spun immensely to hit mike gatting's off stump. what a man. warne was credited for bowling the "bowl of the century" when he dismissed england batsman mike gatting in the 1993 ashes. pakistan's experienced all-rounder shoaib malik took to his twitter handle to express his grievance on the shocking news.



.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Addressing a press conference, Hasnain said Pakistani cricket fans have waited 24 years for this moment and expressed gratitude to the Australian Cricket Team for their tour to Pakistan.
Nick Hockley, Chief Executive Officer of Cricket Australia, thanked the PCB for the warm welcome and "best security" provided to their team.
Hockley stated that Australia's confidence has strengthened after seeing cricket preparations and enthusiasm in Pakistan.
Todd Greenberg, CEO of the Australian Cricketers' Association, commended the Pakistan and Australian cricket boards for their hard work.
The Rawalpindi Test marks a new beginning for the two teams' cricket ties, Faisal Hasnain concluded.
Pakistan vs Australia encounter in Rawalpindi
Both teams are stacked with world-class players and proven Test performers who have made their names across multiple formats around the world. For Pakistan, Babar Azam, Azhar Ali, Fawad Alam, and Mohammad Rizwan are going to shoulder batting responsibilities, while Australia possesses batters like Steve Smith, David Warner, Usman Khawaja, and Marnus Labuschagne.
The two sides have kept a close eye on the Rawalpindi pitch, which has a tradition of being a sporting one. The last Test played at the venue was Pakistan’s 95-run triumph against South Africa almost a year ago.
Since the return of Test cricket to Pakistan in December 2019, this will be the fourth Test at th
Playing XI:

the rawalpindi test marks a new beginning for the two teams' cricket ties, faisal hasnain concluded. hockley stated that australia's confidence has strengthened after seeing cricket preparations and enthusiasm in pakistan. 
.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

addressing a press conference, hasnain said pakistani cricket fans have waited 24 years for this moment and expressed gratitude to the australian cricket team for their tour to pakistan. since the return of test cricket to pakistan in december 2019, this will be the fourth test at th
playing xi: todd greenberg, ceo of the australian cricketers' association, commended the pakistan and australian cricket boards for their hard work. pakistan vs australia encounter in rawalpindi
both teams are stacked with world-class players and proven test performers who have made their names across multiple formats around the world.


WASHINGTON: Nasa’s massive new rocket eased onto its launchpad on Friday, ready for a battery of tests that will clear it to blast off to the moon this summer on an uncrewed flight.
It left the Kennedy Space Center’s Vehicle Assembly Building Thursday evening and began a nearly 11-hour journey on a crawler-transporter to the hallowed Launch Complex 39B, arriving at 4:15 am.
Around 10,000 people had gathered to watch the event.
With the Orion crew capsule fixed on top, the Space Launch System (SLS) Block 1 stands 322 feet (98 meters) high — taller than the Statue of Liberty, but a little smaller than the 363 feet Saturn V rockets that powered the Apollo missions to the moon.
Still, it will produce 8.8 million pounds of maximum thrust (39.1 Meganewtons), 15 per cent more than the Saturn V, meaning it’s expected to be the world’s most powerful rocket at the time it begins operating.
Having reached the iconic launchpad, where 53 Space Shuttles took off, there are roughly two more weeks’ worth of checks before what’s known as the “wet dress rehearsal.” The SLS team will load more than 700,000 gallons (3.2 million liters) of cryogenic propellant into the rocket and practice every phase of launch countdown, stopping ten seconds before blast off.
“From this sacred and historical place, humanity will soon embark on a new era of exploration,” Nasa administrator Bill Nelson said in a statement Friday.
A symbol of US space ambition, it also comes with a hefty price tag: $4.1 billion per launch for the first four Artemis missions, Nasa Inspector General Paul Martin told Congress this month.
To the moon and beyond
Nasa is targeting May as the earliest window for Artemis-1, an uncrewed lunar mission that will be the first integrated flight for SLS and Orion.
SLS will first place Orion into a low Earth orbit, and then, using its upper stage, perform what’s called a trans-lunar injection.
This manoeuvre is necessary to send Orion 280,000 miles beyond Earth and 40,000 miles beyond the moon — further than any spaceship capable of carrying humans has ventured.
On its three-week mission, Orion will deploy 10 shoebox size satellites known as CubeSats to gather information on the deep space environment.
Its “passengers” will include three mannequins collecting radiation data, and a plush Snoopy toy, long a Nasa mascot.
It will journey around the far side of the Moon, using thrust provided by the European Space Agency (ESA) thruster, and finally make its way back to Earth, where its heat shield will be tested against the atmosphere.
Splashdown takes place in the Pacific, off the coast of California.
Artemis-2 will be the first crewed test, flying around the moon but not landing, while Artemis-3, planned for 2025, will see the first woman and first person of color touch down on the lunar south pole.
Nasa wants to build a permanent presence on the moon, and use it as a proving ground for technologies necessary for a Mars mission, sometime in the 2030s, using a Block 2 evolution of the SLS.
Nasa calls SLS a “super heavy lift exploration class vehicle.” The only currently operational super heavy rocket is SpaceX’s Falcon Heavy, which is smaller.
Elon Musk’s company is also developing its own deep space rocket, the fully reusable Starship, which he has said should be ready for an orbital test this year.
Starship would be both bigger and more powerful than SLS: 394 feet tall with 17 million pounds of thrust. It could also be considerably cheaper.
The tycoon has suggested that within years, the cost per launch could be as little as $10 million.
Direct comparisons are complicated by the fact that while SLS is designed to fly direct to its destinations, SpaceX foresees putting a Starship into orbit, and then refueling it with another Starship so it can continue its journey, to extend range and payload.
Published in Dawn, March 19th, 2022

nasa calls sls a “super heavy lift exploration class vehicle.” the only currently operational super heavy rocket is spacex’s falcon heavy, which is smaller. to the moon and beyond
nasa is targeting may as the earliest window for artemis-1, an uncrewed lunar mission that will be the first integrated flight for sls and orion. starship would be both bigger and more powerful than sls: 394 feet tall with 17 million pounds of thrust. sls will first place orion into a low earth orbit, and then, using its upper stage, perform what’s called a trans-lunar injection. a symbol of us space ambition, it also comes with a hefty price tag: $4.1 billion per launch for the first four artemis missions, nasa inspector general paul martin told congress this month. with the orion crew capsule fixed on top, the space launch system (sls) block 1 stands 322 feet (98 meters) high — taller than the statue of liberty, but a little smaller than the 363 feet saturn v rockets that powered the apollo missions to the moon. this manoeuvre is necessary to send orion 280,000 miles beyond earth and 40,000 miles beyond the moon — further than any spaceship capable of carrying humans has ventured. elon musk’s company is also developing its own deep space rocket, the fully reusable starship, which he has said should be ready for an orbital test this year. washington: nasa’s massive new rocket eased onto its launchpad on friday, ready for a battery of tests that will clear it to blast off to the moon this summer on an uncrewed flight. the tycoon has suggested that within years, the cost per launch could be as little as $10 million. it could also be considerably cheaper. artemis-2 will be the first crewed test, flying around the moon but not landing, while artemis-3, planned for 2025, will see the first woman and first person of color touch down on the lunar south pole. on its three-week mission, orion will deploy 10 shoebox size satellites known as cubesats to gather information on the deep space environment. nasa wants to build a permanent presence on the moon, and use it as a proving ground for technologies necessary for a mars mission, sometime in the 2030s, using a block 2 evolution of the sls. it will journey around the far side of the moon, using thrust provided by the european space agency (esa) thruster, and finally make its way back to earth, where its heat shield will be tested against the atmosphere.


Digital accounting app Metric, which caters to small and medium businesses (SMBs) and startups, has raised $900,000 in pre-seed funding in an oversubscribed round, the fintech announced on Thursday.
The Middle East, North Africa and Pakistan (MENAP)-based company raised the funding in a round led by i2i Ventures, along with participation from local and international venture capitalists (VCs), including Ratio Ventures, Deosai Ventures, Kinnow Capital, Outliers Venture Capital and Augmentor Capital. 
Angels, including Aspire and Lifepal’s founder Giacomo Ficari, Arif Habib Limited Chairperson Alam Zafar, deep tech VC Faridul Haque and founder of Eligible.ai Rameez Zafar, also took part in the round. 
According to a press release, the round marked Outliers Venture Capital's and Augmentor Capital’s first investment in a Pakistan-based startup.
"The startup plans to use this round to grow across Pakistan and quickly expand to other markets in the MENA region," the press release stated. 
The founders and the app
The press release said Metric, which was launched in August 2021 by Meenah Tariq and Omar Parvez Khan, reached $20 million in annualised recorded transactions within five months during closed alpha.
Tariq and Khan, it added, had been "involved in the rapid growth of Pakistan’s startup ecosystem over the last decade, having worked with and trained over a thousand small businesses over the years". 
"Both of them were partners in venture capital funds before making a switch to the operator side," the press release stated, adding that they had also worked with startups in other emerging and frontier markets including Bangladesh, Nepal, Iraq, Myanmar and Vietnam. 
Their third co-founder and chief technology officer, Dr Habiba, holds a Phd in machine learning and artificial intelligence. 
The press release quoted her as saying, "There are over 30m SMBs and startups in the MENAP region, contributing $2 trillion to the region’s GDP (gross domestic product)." 
"However, most founders are held hostage by their fear of numbers and cannot afford high-quality accountants. Current accounting software solutions are either cost prohibitive or are designed for accountants to use, not founders," she pointed out. "As a result, their businesses suffer and fail to grow."
The co-founder said, "Metric lets you take control of your company’s finances and get access to real-time dashboards, professional reports and insights from day one — in a very conversational, friendly way." 
"This is not a cashbook or ledger app; this is an accounting and business intelligence solution that founders can start using on day one of their business, all the way up to 50 employees. Our goal is to make Metric the most founder-friendly business finance app in the world,” she added.
Early-stage founders could start using the app for free so that they don’t need to worry about spending resources on accounting while striving to get their business off the ground, the press release said, adding that as their businesses grew, they could graduate to the paid version which would give them access to "fully digitised, auditable accounts". 
In this respect, Khan said, “We want founders to use accounting as a tool to drive growth. Metric monitors the health of your businesses in real-time." 
"Not only does it track core metrics such as CAC (customer acquisition cost), AOV (average order value), CLV (customer lifetime value), growth and retention — it proactively helps business owners make strategic decisions that enable them to take their business to the next level," he explained. "This is the modern way of doing accounting. Traditional accounting is a cost centre. Modern accounting is a profit centre.” 
'App will solve challenges faced by millions'
After the company raised the funding, i2i Ventures co-founder  Kalsoom Lakhani said: "I’ve been lucky to have worked closely and alongside both Meenah and Omar [during] the past seven years in the Pakistan startup space. They both not only care deeply about the problem, they’ve also been close to it, and have designed a solution with the user at the centre." 
"We are so honoured to back them and Metric, which we know will solve the challenges faced by millions of SMBs in Pakistan and the region,” the press release quoted her as saying.
Faaez ul Haq, partner at Kinnow Capital, said Metric was going to make bookkeeping and managing finances as easy for SMB founders as it was for large companies with dedicated accounting teams. 
"This is an acute pain point for small business owners today and the Metric team is perfectly positioned to solve this with their deep accounting and finance background and a tech-forward approach. We are thrilled to partner with them on this journey," he said. 
Rayan Dawud, investment partner at Outliers Venture Capital, pointed out that globally SMBs and startups were challenged by "backend operations that don’t fall within their founders’ core competencies". 
"We’re thrilled to partner with Meenah and Omar and support Metric’s growth across the MENAP region as they build a platform that enables companies’ day-to-day operations while also equipping business owners with tools for proactive decision-making,” he added.
According to Shehryar Hydri, partner at Deosai Ventures, Metric "is one of those rare platforms that lets you start using it with minimal effort and then organically provides you extremely powerful tools to grow your business and mature as a manager". 
"It's intuitive to use and could easily become the secret sauce for transforming the quality of MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises) around the world,” he said.

according to a press release, the round marked outliers venture capital's and augmentor capital’s first investment in a pakistan-based startup. traditional accounting is a cost centre. the middle east, north africa and pakistan (menap)-based company raised the funding in a round led by i2i ventures, along with participation from local and international venture capitalists (vcs), including ratio ventures, deosai ventures, kinnow capital, outliers venture capital and augmentor capital. in this respect, khan said, “we want founders to use accounting as a tool to drive growth. "the startup plans to use this round to grow across pakistan and quickly expand to other markets in the mena region," the press release stated. our goal is to make metric the most founder-friendly business finance app in the world,” she added. digital accounting app metric, which caters to small and medium businesses (smbs) and startups, has raised $900,000 in pre-seed funding in an oversubscribed round, the fintech announced on thursday. rayan dawud, investment partner at outliers venture capital, pointed out that globally smbs and startups were challenged by "backend operations that don’t fall within their founders’ core competencies". "this is not a cashbook or ledger app; this is an accounting and business intelligence solution that founders can start using on day one of their business, all the way up to 50 employees. "we’re thrilled to partner with meenah and omar and support metric’s growth across the menap region as they build a platform that enables companies’ day-to-day operations while also equipping business owners with tools for proactive decision-making,” he added. "this is the modern way of doing accounting. faaez ul haq, partner at kinnow capital, said metric was going to make bookkeeping and managing finances as easy for smb founders as it was for large companies with dedicated accounting teams. the founders and the app
the press release said metric, which was launched in august 2021 by meenah tariq and omar parvez khan, reached $20 million in annualised recorded transactions within five months during closed alpha. "we are so honoured to back them and metric, which we know will solve the challenges faced by millions of smbs in pakistan and the region,” the press release quoted her as saying. current accounting software solutions are either cost prohibitive or are designed for accountants to use, not founders," she pointed out. the press release quoted her as saying, "there are over 30m smbs and startups in the menap region, contributing $2 trillion to the region’s gdp (gross domestic product)." metric monitors the health of your businesses in real-time." the co-founder said, "metric lets you take control of your company’s finances and get access to real-time dashboards, professional reports and insights from day one — in a very conversational, friendly way." modern accounting is a profit centre.” 
'app will solve challenges faced by millions'
after the company raised the funding, i2i ventures co-founder  kalsoom lakhani said: "i’ve been lucky to have worked closely and alongside both meenah and omar [during] the past seven years in the pakistan startup space. early-stage founders could start using the app for free so that they don’t need to worry about spending resources on accounting while striving to get their business off the ground, the press release said, adding that as their businesses grew, they could graduate to the paid version which would give them access to "fully digitised, auditable accounts".


PESHAWAR: The Peshawar High Court on Wednesday directed the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority to produce a progress report on the steps taken for blocking ‘unlawful’ contents, including immoral material, on the popular mobile video app, TikTok.
A bench consisting of Chief Justice Qaiser Rashid Khan and Justice Abdul Shakoor observed that the country had its own social values, so the court won’t allow any material on TikTok that would ‘corrupt minds of the young generation’.
It added that it couldn’t cut off the country from rest of the world, so TikTok couldn’t be banned permanently as it was an international mobile app.
The bench, however, observed that there should be a filtration mechanism for the app.
The court was hearing a petition jointly filed by 40 residents of Peshawar, who sought orders for the respondents, including PTA and Federal Investigation Agency, to ban TikTok to the extent of the violation of the constitutional provisions, which don’t allow acts contrary to Islamic code of life in the country.
Directing the PTA to submit details of progress on the matter, it fixed May 31 for the next hearing into the petition.
In March last year, the court had banned TikTok service in the country leading to the blocking of the people’s access to the video-sharing app.
The ban was lifted on April 1 with the court asking the PTA to ensure that no immoral and obscene contents are uploaded on it.
Lawyers Sara Ali Khan and Nazish Muzaffar appeared for the petitioners, whereas assistant attorney general Taufeeq Hussain Shah represented the federal government.
Jehanzeb Mehsud, the counsel for the PTA, said his client had prepared a report on the matter.
He said the telecom regulator had devised a mechanism for first suspending the TikTok accounts, which shared immoral contents, and then blocking them.
Mr Mehsud said after the promulgation of the Prevention of Electronic Crimes (Amendment) Ordinance, the powers of FIA had further been enhanced for dealing such issues.
The bench observed that the ordinance was mostly meant to check political propaganda. It added that there were certain videos showing youth and children committing suicide.
Mr Mehsud said the Islamabad High Court had banned the PUBG game but lifted the ban afterwards.
The petitioners said the contents shared on TikTok violated Constitutional provisions, which guaranteed social and moral wellbeing of citizens.
The PTA had placed a ban on TikTok last year. However, it was lifted later.
During a hearing in Sept last year, the telecom regulator had informed the court that it won’t lift the TikTok ban until unlawful contents were removed from the mobile app and a mechanism was introduced in the country by its operator for ‘proactive content moderation’.
In a report submitted to the court earlier, the PTA said it had issued instructions to the TikTok management under the Prevention of Electronic Crimes Act, 2016, and the Removal and Blocking of Unlawful Online Content (Procedure, Oversight and Safeguards Rules, 2020, to take concrete steps to remove unlawful contents from the app. It had added that on the failure of the TikTok management to comply with the instructions, it blocked the app in the country through an order on July 20, 2021.
In response to that report, the TikTok management had claimed that it was not provided with specific information regarding ‘inappropriate content’ allegedly found in violation of the local community guidelines. It had also said its latest Community Guidelines Enforcement Report showed that Pakistan was the second-ranking market in the world in the first quarter of 2021 with the largest volume of videos removed from TikTok.
“During this period, we enforced our community guidelines and took down more than six million videos in just three months. Moreover, we permanently ban accounts for repeatedly or egregiously violating our community guidelines,” it had said.
Published in Dawn, March 17th, 2022

the pta had placed a ban on tiktok last year. peshawar: the peshawar high court on wednesday directed the pakistan telecommunication authority to produce a progress report on the steps taken for blocking ‘unlawful’ contents, including immoral material, on the popular mobile video app, tiktok. mr mehsud said the islamabad high court had banned the pubg game but lifted the ban afterwards. he said the telecom regulator had devised a mechanism for first suspending the tiktok accounts, which shared immoral contents, and then blocking them. in march last year, the court had banned tiktok service in the country leading to the blocking of the people’s access to the video-sharing app. the petitioners said the contents shared on tiktok violated constitutional provisions, which guaranteed social and moral wellbeing of citizens. moreover, we permanently ban accounts for repeatedly or egregiously violating our community guidelines,” it had said. during a hearing in sept last year, the telecom regulator had informed the court that it won’t lift the tiktok ban until unlawful contents were removed from the mobile app and a mechanism was introduced in the country by its operator for ‘proactive content moderation’. in a report submitted to the court earlier, the pta said it had issued instructions to the tiktok management under the prevention of electronic crimes act, 2016, and the removal and blocking of unlawful online content (procedure, oversight and safeguards rules, 2020, to take concrete steps to remove unlawful contents from the app. jehanzeb mehsud, the counsel for the pta, said his client had prepared a report on the matter. the bench, however, observed that there should be a filtration mechanism for the app. it added that it couldn’t cut off the country from rest of the world, so tiktok couldn’t be banned permanently as it was an international mobile app. the ban was lifted on april 1 with the court asking the pta to ensure that no immoral and obscene contents are uploaded on it. it had also said its latest community guidelines enforcement report showed that pakistan was the second-ranking market in the world in the first quarter of 2021 with the largest volume of videos removed from tiktok. however, it was lifted later.


Bazaar, a B2B marketplace from Pakistan, has raised $70million in a Series B round led by Dragoneer Investment Group and Tiger Global Management, according to a press release issued by the company.
Investors, including Indus Valley Capital, Defy.vc, Acrew Capital, Wavemaker Partners, B&Y Venture Partners and Zayn Capital also participated in the latest deal.
Founded in June 2020 by Hamza Jawaid and Saad Jangda, Bazaar provides procurement, fulfillment, operating software, digital lending and supply chain products to merchants and suppliers in Pakistan. 
“We are humbled and excited to continue on the path to creating a generation-defining story for Pakistan. With significant backing of two of the largest venture growth funds in the world, we believe this will continue to change the narrative on the country and inspire countless more and bigger stories in near future," say founders of the platform.
According to a statement, Bazaar’s mission is to build an operating system for traditional retail in Pakistan. "This retail economy, worth over $170bn, is primarily offline and mostly served through five million SMEs across the country."
The statement added that the merchant base, the lifeline of Pakistan’s economy, also lacked access to formal financial services in a country that hosts the world’s third-largest unbanked population.
"At the same time, Pakistan is undergoing a massive digital penetration wave driven by the widespread availability of affordable smartphones and some of the lowest mobile broadband costs in the world," the company says.
Bazaar says it aims to "capitalise on these fundamentals by building an integrated platform of B2B offerings that can aggregate, digitise, and finance the country’s fragmented retail landscape".
“We are thrilled to support Bazaar’s vision of building an end-to-end commerce and fintech platform for millions of unbanked and offline merchants in Pakistan”, said Christian Jensen, Partner at Dragoneer Investment Group.
“Bazaar’s pace of geographic expansion and new product development is a testament to the rare talent and culture Hamza and Saad have cultivated at Bazaar.” 
Bazaar’s B2B e-commerce marketplace is now servicing 21 towns and cities across Pakistan, covering 30 per cent of Pakistan’s population through more than a dozen functional fulfillment facilities.
The platform is adding three to four new cities and towns to its last-mile network every month, putting it on course to establish the country's largest tech-enabled footprint by the end of the year, the statement says.
The statement said the mobile application had on-boarded over 2.4m businesses across 500 cities and towns in the country, recording over $10bn in annualised bookkeeping transaction value. 
The company said it also recently launched Bazaar Credit, a short-term working capital financing product, which provided liquidity to its largely unbanked merchant base.
“To date, Bazaar has provided thousands of digital loans, with 100pc repayment and significant uplift in merchant buying volumes.”
John Curtius, partner at Tiger Global Management said: “We believe that Pakistan is at an inflection point in its tech ecosystem development. We are excited to back their incredible team and phenomenal growth in such a short span of time." 

according to a statement, bazaar’s mission is to build an operating system for traditional retail in pakistan. the company said it also recently launched bazaar credit, a short-term working capital financing product, which provided liquidity to its largely unbanked merchant base. “we are thrilled to support bazaar’s vision of building an end-to-end commerce and fintech platform for millions of unbanked and offline merchants in pakistan”, said christian jensen, partner at dragoneer investment group. investors, including indus valley capital, defy.vc, acrew capital, wavemaker partners, b&y venture partners and zayn capital also participated in the latest deal. bazaar, a b2b marketplace from pakistan, has raised $70million in a series b round led by dragoneer investment group and tiger global management, according to a press release issued by the company. the statement added that the merchant base, the lifeline of pakistan’s economy, also lacked access to formal financial services in a country that hosts the world’s third-largest unbanked population. “to date, bazaar has provided thousands of digital loans, with 100pc repayment and significant uplift in merchant buying volumes.”
john curtius, partner at tiger global management said: “we believe that pakistan is at an inflection point in its tech ecosystem development. “bazaar’s pace of geographic expansion and new product development is a testament to the rare talent and culture hamza and saad have cultivated at bazaar.” 
bazaar’s b2b e-commerce marketplace is now servicing 21 towns and cities across pakistan, covering 30 per cent of pakistan’s population through more than a dozen functional fulfillment facilities. founded in june 2020 by hamza jawaid and saad jangda, bazaar provides procurement, fulfillment, operating software, digital lending and supply chain products to merchants and suppliers in pakistan. "this retail economy, worth over $170bn, is primarily offline and mostly served through five million smes across the country." the statement said the mobile application had on-boarded over 2.4m businesses across 500 cities and towns in the country, recording over $10bn in annualised bookkeeping transaction value.


MOSCOW: Western sanctions against Russia could cause the International Space Station to crash, the head of Russian space agency Roscosmos warned on Saturday, calling for the punitive measures to be lifted.
According to Dmitry Rogozin, the sanctions, some of which predate Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine, could disrupt the operation of Russian spacecraft servicing the ISS.
As a result, the Russian segment of the station — which helps correct its orbit — could be affected, causing the 500-tonne structure to  “fall down into the sea or onto land”, the Roscosmos chief wrote on Telegram.
“The Russian segment ensures that the station’s orbit is corrected (on average 11 times a year), including to avoid space debris”, said Rogozin, who regularly expresses his support for the Russian army in Ukraine on social networks.
Publishing a map of the locations where the ISS could possibly come down, he pointed out that it was unlikely to be in Russia.
“But the populations of other countries, especially those led by the ‘dogs of war’, should think about the price of the sanctions against Roscosmos”, he continued, describing the countries who imposed sanctions as  “crazy”.
Rogozin similarly raised the threat of the space station falling to earth last month while blasting Western sanctions on Twitter.
On March 1, Nasa said it was trying to find a solution to keep the ISS in orbit without Russia’s help. Crews and supplies are transported to the Russian segment by Soyuz spacecraft. But Rogozin said the launcher used for take-off had been  “under US sanctions since 2021 and under EU and Canadian sanctions since 2022”.
Roscosmos said it had appealed to Nasa, the Canadian Space Agency and the European Space Agency,  “demanding the lifting of illegal sanctions against our companies”.
Published in Dawn, March 13th, 2022

moscow: western sanctions against russia could cause the international space station to crash, the head of russian space agency roscosmos warned on saturday, calling for the punitive measures to be lifted. roscosmos said it had appealed to nasa, the canadian space agency and the european space agency,  “demanding the lifting of illegal sanctions against our companies”. according to dmitry rogozin, the sanctions, some of which predate moscow’s invasion of ukraine, could disrupt the operation of russian spacecraft servicing the iss. but rogozin said the launcher used for take-off had been  “under us sanctions since 2021 and under eu and canadian sanctions since 2022”. rogozin similarly raised the threat of the space station falling to earth last month while blasting western sanctions on twitter. “the russian segment ensures that the station’s orbit is corrected (on average 11 times a year), including to avoid space debris”, said rogozin, who regularly expresses his support for the russian army in ukraine on social networks. crews and supplies are transported to the russian segment by soyuz spacecraft. on march 1, nasa said it was trying to find a solution to keep the iss in orbit without russia’s help.


The social media company is also temporarily allowing some posts that call for death to Russian President Vladimir Putin or Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, according to internal emails to its content moderators.
“As a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we have temporarily made allowances for forms of political expression that would normally violate our rules like violent speech such as 'death to the Russian invaders'. We still won't allow credible calls for violence against Russian civilians,” a Meta spokesperson said in a statement.
The calls for the leaders' deaths will be allowed unless they contain other targets or have two indicators of credibility, such as the location or method, one email said, in a recent change to the company's rules on violence and incitement.
“Users of Facebook & Instagram did not give the owners of these platforms the right to determine the criteria of truth and pit nations against each other,” the embassy said on Twitter in a message that was also shared by their India office.
 
The temporary policy changes on calls for violence to Russian soldiers apply to Armenia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, and Ukraine, according to one email.
In the email recently sent to moderators, Meta highlighted a change in its hate speech policy pertaining both to Russian soldiers and to Russians in the context of the invasion.
“We are issuing a spirit-of-the-policy allowance to allow T1 violent speech that would otherwise be removed under the Hate Speech policy when: (a) targeting Russian soldiers, EXCEPT prisoners of war, or (b) targeting Russians where it's clear that the context is the Russian invasion of Ukraine (e.g., content mentions the invasion, self-defence, etc.),” it said in the email.
“We are doing this because we have observed that in this specific context, 'Russian soldiers' is being used as a proxy for the Russian military. The Hate Speech policy continues to prohibit attacks on Russians,” the email stated.
Last week, Russia said it was banning Facebook in the country in response to what it said were restrictions of access to Russian media on the platform. Moscow has cracked down on tech companies, including Twitter, which said it is restricted in the country, during its invasion of Ukraine, which it calls a “special operation”.
Emails also showed that Meta would allow praise of the right-wing Azov battalion, which is normally prohibited, in a change first reported by The Intercept.
The Meta spokesperson previously said the company was “for the time being, making a narrow exception for praise of the Azov Regiment strictly in the context of defending Ukraine, or in their role as part of the Ukraine National Guard”.

),” it said in the email. in the email recently sent to moderators, meta highlighted a change in its hate speech policy pertaining both to russian soldiers and to russians in the context of the invasion. we still won't allow credible calls for violence against russian civilians,” a meta spokesperson said in a statement. the hate speech policy continues to prohibit attacks on russians,” the email stated. “we are issuing a spirit-of-the-policy allowance to allow t1 violent speech that would otherwise be removed under the hate speech policy when: (a) targeting russian soldiers, except prisoners of war, or (b) targeting russians where it's clear that the context is the russian invasion of ukraine (e.g., content mentions the invasion, self-defence, etc. the temporary policy changes on calls for violence to russian soldiers apply to armenia, azerbaijan, estonia, georgia, hungary, latvia, lithuania, poland, romania, russia, slovakia, and ukraine, according to one email. “as a result of the russian invasion of ukraine, we have temporarily made allowances for forms of political expression that would normally violate our rules like violent speech such as 'death to the russian invaders'. last week, russia said it was banning facebook in the country in response to what it said were restrictions of access to russian media on the platform. emails also showed that meta would allow praise of the right-wing azov battalion, which is normally prohibited, in a change first reported by the intercept.


The IT industry does not have a lot of women working in it and that's a problem 10Pearls, a company that hosts workshops, webinars and training sessions, hopes to solve with its Women Tech Quest. The sixth edition of the competition was held on March 12 and allowed women to display their coding skills, gain recognition and win cash prizes. Motivational speakers were also brought in for sessions to inspire participants to make their way into the IT industry. The event was held simultaneously in three cities — Karachi, Islamabad and Lahore — where women took part in a coding competition. 
What is the competition about?
 
There are three parts of the WTQ competition — coding, testing and design. During the coding session, women are given problems to solve via programming language. For the testing phase, participants are presented with a set of objectives to test database and automation concepts and for the third and final phase, the design competition, the competitors are required to solve a User Interface (UI) or User Experience (UX) challenge. 
There are two categories in the competition for each stream (coding, testing and design) — professional and student. After entries are submitted by the participants, motivational speakers from the industry are invited to answer queries of the women taking part in the quest. Each city announces six winners from the competition, two per stream. In total, 18 winners receive grand prizes while rest of the participants are given gift bags and certificates for their participation. 
Why WTQ?
Hussain gave an example of a university experience and said, "when you're giving your final year project, groups are made and men immediately take [coding] and women are given the documenting bit and management." She believes that this translates into the workforce and therefore, women are unsure about their coding skills, which is why they don't explore this sector. She said that this was the first problem they figured out. 
The second problem, according to Hussain, was that women after a certain age started to disappear because there was no daycare support in a lot of companies. "These women unfortunately quit their profession after they conceive or get married. We felt that now these women might want to come back as their kids grow up but they don't necessarily have the right networks men do by staying in touch and and hanging out to maintain these relations," she said. 
Hussain also said that women are generally "hesitant to ask for help," which is why they thought of creating an event that specifically targets women in the IT industry and coding in order for them to come together and for those women who stay at home. 
 
"We received a phenomenal response at the first-ever WTQ and the first-ever winner of this competition was a stay at home mom who had not been working for five years and had three kids at home. So when she came to this event, she won and it boosted her self-confidence," she said. "We gave her a flexible job offer to work at her own hours and [she] slowly had the avenue to get back into the industry and that's the first achievement of this event," said Hussain. 
The director also mentioned that women who previously participated in the WTQ competition are now working in international tech firms and always credit the platform for promoting their talent. However, what surprises them is how coders from all over Pakistan participate in the competition. "We get a lot of attendance from areas that you'd never think of, like Sargodha, Gujranwala and Chitral. Because it was virtual during Covid, we had a lot of interest from these areas, which made us realise that there is talent in these cities as well," she said. 
Hussain's advice to participants is  to always make a friend who can help them personally and professionally as the competition allows women to speak to one another and understand where they stand in a work environment. She also said that feedback about the competition being tough creates this need to learn more about coding as it makes them realise how much information women need to succeed in IT in general. 
"The field obviously does not have a [good] gender balance. I feel it has a lot of potential because this is one of the only sectors that allows you to work from home completely and remotely and that's ideal  for the socio-economic situation women live in. Unfortunately the gap is still there, which can only be resolved at a teaching level for which we have started a university, an online portal that's free of cost for women to get the required training," she explained.  
'Have audacious dreams'
 
She also said that there is a lot of work that needs to be done but it has to be done on a regular basis to really make an impact. Giving advice to women wanting to do something career wise, Iqbal said, "Have audacious dreams, nobody can stop you if you have those dreams, whether it is in the tech space or any other space that you choose. Dream big, work hard and things will fall into place." 

there are three parts of the wtq competition — coding, testing and design. why wtq? during the coding session, women are given problems to solve via programming language. the event was held simultaneously in three cities — karachi, islamabad and lahore — where women took part in a coding competition. hussain also said that women are generally "hesitant to ask for help," which is why they thought of creating an event that specifically targets women in the it industry and coding in order for them to come together and for those women who stay at home. what is the competition about? there are two categories in the competition for each stream (coding, testing and design) — professional and student. the it industry does not have a lot of women working in it and that's a problem 10pearls, a company that hosts workshops, webinars and training sessions, hopes to solve with its women tech quest. hussain gave an example of a university experience and said, "when you're giving your final year project, groups are made and men immediately take [coding] and women are given the documenting bit and management." she said that this was the first problem they figured out. "these women unfortunately quit their profession after they conceive or get married. motivational speakers were also brought in for sessions to inspire participants to make their way into the it industry. the director also mentioned that women who previously participated in the wtq competition are now working in international tech firms and always credit the platform for promoting their talent. each city announces six winners from the competition, two per stream. she also said that feedback about the competition being tough creates this need to learn more about coding as it makes them realise how much information women need to succeed in it in general. hussain's advice to participants is  to always make a friend who can help them personally and professionally as the competition allows women to speak to one another and understand where they stand in a work environment. the sixth edition of the competition was held on march 12 and allowed women to display their coding skills, gain recognition and win cash prizes. "we gave her a flexible job offer to work at her own hours and [she] slowly had the avenue to get back into the industry and that's the first achievement of this event," said hussain. after entries are submitted by the participants, motivational speakers from the industry are invited to answer queries of the women taking part in the quest. 'have audacious dreams'
 
she also said that there is a lot of work that needs to be done but it has to be done on a regular basis to really make an impact. giving advice to women wanting to do something career wise, iqbal said, "have audacious dreams, nobody can stop you if you have those dreams, whether it is in the tech space or any other space that you choose.


ISLAMABAD: The largest IT solution provider in the country has said that Pakistan should focus on local software development and for achieving that objective, it must facilitate international companies by maintaining consistency of policies.
“The excellent human resource of Pakistan usually moves out of the country either seeking jobs or to work as self-employed,” Saqib Ahmed, Managing Director of System Analysis Programme Development (SAP), said.
SAP is a German multinational software corporation that develops enterprise software to manage business operations and customer relations.
Talking to media here on Wednesday, Mr Ahmed said that there was strong voice across the world regarding laws that regulated Cloud services.
The Cloud services were taking a predominant role in the modern world and businesses are acquiring these services instead of maintaining their own data centres and incorporate them with their IT operations.
However, Mr Ahmed said that various geo-political crises were creating new challenges for the Cloud businesses.
“The demand is rising for Cloud services’ providers and data centre operators to apply laws of the country placing its data with them instead of the laws of the host country, to ensure that any war-like situation does not affect their data,” he said.
Like several countries of the world, relevant authorities in Pakistan too keep a watch on employees and top management of the companies maintaining data of public and private sector entities.
Pakistan has also requested SAP to shift data of Pakistani companies from the Gulf region to China, as there were many Indian nationals at key positions in the Gulf region.
At present more than 90 per cent public and private sector companies in the country use SAP solutions for streamlining their operations.
SAP has more than 230 million Cloud users and more than 100 IT solutions covering all business functions.
A Cloud-based solution protects organisations in financial terms, reduces human errors and allows better streamlining and coordination, compared with non-Cloud-based solutions.
Regarding development of IT-based solutions in the country, Mr Ahmed said that the government must focus on local software development and be pro-active for the purpose.
“Consistency of policies regarding taxation and other facilitations is extremely necessary as the IT sector has seen tax imposition and its waiver again and again and such steps confuse international players,” the SAP MD said.
The second important step needed to be taken by the government and the State Bank of Pakistan was easy method to make payments to vendors living abroad and repatriate profits.
Published in Dawn, March 10th, 2022

regarding development of it-based solutions in the country, mr ahmed said that the government must focus on local software development and be pro-active for the purpose. at present more than 90 per cent public and private sector companies in the country use sap solutions for streamlining their operations. talking to media here on wednesday, mr ahmed said that there was strong voice across the world regarding laws that regulated cloud services. islamabad: the largest it solution provider in the country has said that pakistan should focus on local software development and for achieving that objective, it must facilitate international companies by maintaining consistency of policies. however, mr ahmed said that various geo-political crises were creating new challenges for the cloud businesses. “the demand is rising for cloud services’ providers and data centre operators to apply laws of the country placing its data with them instead of the laws of the host country, to ensure that any war-like situation does not affect their data,” he said. sap is a german multinational software corporation that develops enterprise software to manage business operations and customer relations. the cloud services were taking a predominant role in the modern world and businesses are acquiring these services instead of maintaining their own data centres and incorporate them with their it operations. “the excellent human resource of pakistan usually moves out of the country either seeking jobs or to work as self-employed,” saqib ahmed, managing director of system analysis programme development (sap), said. like several countries of the world, relevant authorities in pakistan too keep a watch on employees and top management of the companies maintaining data of public and private sector entities.


ISLAMABAD: Federal Board of Revenue (FBR) and Pakistan Telecomm­unications Authority (PTA) have jointly developed a new system for temporary registration of overseas Pakistani and foreign nationals mobile devices in collaboration with the Federal Investigation Agency (FIA) and mobile phone operators.
This module has been introduced for those overseas Pakistanis and foreign nationals who do not intend to keep their mobile device in Pakistan and will be applicable for only one mobile handset device.
To avail of this facility, the applicant shall provide his/her credentials including passport number, date of arrival and intended date of departure, mobile SIM issued in his/her name, and IMEI(s) of the device.
The new system shall carry out real-time validation from FIA’s Integrated Border Management System (IBMS) to verify the date of arrival of the applicant.
On the lapse of 120 days of the stay of the applicant, the IMEI(s) utilised under this facilitation shall be suspended and will not be utilised on local network services. In case, the same applicant visits Pakistan again, he/she will be required to re-apply for this temporary facilitation, by re-entering the credentials which were used for the 1st or previous registration under this scheme.
This system will not only facilitate overseas Pakistanis and foreign nationals coming to Pakistan on a short-term basis but will also create a positive image of the country. Likewise, the checks introduced under this system will ensure that only the genuine overseas Pakistani/foreign national avails the said facility.
Published in Dawn, March 8th, 2022

islamabad: federal board of revenue (fbr) and pakistan telecomm­unications authority (pta) have jointly developed a new system for temporary registration of overseas pakistani and foreign nationals mobile devices in collaboration with the federal investigation agency (fia) and mobile phone operators. the new system shall carry out real-time validation from fia’s integrated border management system (ibms) to verify the date of arrival of the applicant. this module has been introduced for those overseas pakistanis and foreign nationals who do not intend to keep their mobile device in pakistan and will be applicable for only one mobile handset device. to avail of this facility, the applicant shall provide his/her credentials including passport number, date of arrival and intended date of departure, mobile sim issued in his/her name, and imei(s) of the device. this system will not only facilitate overseas pakistanis and foreign nationals coming to pakistan on a short-term basis but will also create a positive image of the country. likewise, the checks introduced under this system will ensure that only the genuine overseas pakistani/foreign national avails the said facility.


Fire broke out at the Karachi head office of internet and television service provider StormFiber, powered by Cybernet, late Saturday night. No causalities or injuries were reported. 
According to a statement issued by StormFiber following the incident, the fire was contained without any loss to networking equipment or servers. "As a precautionary measure, however, our power systems including the primary and secondary UPS were taken offline and the electric utility has also temporarily disconnected power to the site, causing an outage in our network in Karachi," the statement said, adding: "Our team has initiated our disaster recovery processes."
 
Internet access for StormFiber customers was restored by Sunday morning. 
Sharing an update on Sunday about internet connectivity, the company said some customers may experience a slowness in speed at this time. "However, these speeds should be back to normal as our network operations team increases traffic loads," said the update. 
"Our TV and phone services remain affected but our engineers are working around the clock to resume all services in the shortest time possible," it added. 
 

internet access for stormfiber customers was restored by sunday morning. sharing an update on sunday about internet connectivity, the company said some customers may experience a slowness in speed at this time. "however, these speeds should be back to normal as our network operations team increases traffic loads," said the update. fire broke out at the karachi head office of internet and television service provider stormfiber, powered by cybernet, late saturday night. "as a precautionary measure, however, our power systems including the primary and secondary ups were taken offline and the electric utility has also temporarily disconnected power to the site, causing an outage in our network in karachi," the statement said, adding: "our team has initiated our disaster recovery processes."


So where did it all begin?
Good mentorship
Mr Bilal was just an ordinary guy who like many other A-Levels students was not sure about his future. He figured out very early that he did not want to go to a university. He then planned to get an ACCA degree and decided to become an auditor. But this did not work out.
Thinking that a career as a rock guitarist might be the thing for him because he had participated in several school gigs before, he decided to try his luck in singing. But Mr Bilal was counselled by his father who being a good mentor told him he would not be able to have a stable career in singing, rather he should utilise his other talent, in computers.
He first used a computer when he was only 5 years old. This was where his passion for the world of computing began.
Then, a friend from England told him to take a certification in Cisco and work in networking technology. He went on to complete two CCIE certifications.
Still 21 years of age, he was used to getting many job offers. He even turned down the offer of a big telecommunication company in Saudi Arabia and rather chose to do a job in Beaconhouse. But thankfully within six months of his work there, he realised that his talent was being wasted and his job role was not utilising his Cisco expertise at all.
A company from Abu Dhabi called him to give training sessions in Cisco. This company also specialised in disaster recovery solutions. After gaining some experience, Mr Bilal left the company to form his own company – Ikhtira Systems – in Multan, a city chosen specifically because there was no competition in disaster recovery services there. Lahore already had so many companies doing similar work. His company’s name ‘Ikhtira’ was taken from a band he was a part of in high school. But just like the band, the company suffered heavy losses and failed within 10 months of operations.
Mr Bilal was distraught; he did not want to go back home and ask his parents for support. People used to look up to him and appreciate the fact that he started a company at 22, and now they were making fun of him. He did not even have money to buy lunch for three consecutive days.
Freelancing pays
Destiny then led him to a guy who told him to start freelancing on the Internet. He had a network of very supportive friends in Multan. Even though, he did not have money to buy his own Internet service, being the geeky genius he was, he started hacking into other people’s Wi-Fi. Freelancing started making him some money. He got his first project in 10 days and although he only made $35 for his first project, he was relieved that at least now, he was earning something. “Things then started moving in a good direction. Freelancing really helped,” he recalls.
With the confidence of some money in his pocket, he went back home and started living with his family in Vehari. But his parents were upset with his routine. He used to sleep all day and work all night. His parents worried that no girl would marry him if he continued like this. Mr Bilal then got the opportunity to move to Lahore. He started helping Arfa Karim’s parents in setting up their institution in Plan9. He didn’t charge them any money, just utilised the space for his own work. By this time, he had started working on Wifigen already.
Getting breakthroughs
During his freelancing gigs, Mr Bilal got a project from someone who turned out to be John Russell Patrick, the ex-VP of IBM. He pitched Wifigen’s idea to him, but although John liked the idea, he said that he did not invest in early-stage companies. Mr Bilal was nonetheless adamant that Mr John could at least mentor him. Thus, began the journey of a mentor turning into an investor.
Mr Bilal then went on to do a project for another lady who had her own consultancy company in New Zealand. She introduced him to someone who wanted to be a reseller for this product in New Zealand, but was told to complete the product in two months. Mr Bilal argued that he needed funds to complete it in such a short period. The reseller in New Zealand agreed to fund the project without taking any equity. A lucky break, you may call it. He then hired some people on freelancer.com to help him build his product within 45 days. The proposed timeline for project completion was 60 days. This left a 15 days leverage to further test the product and eradicate any flaws.
But that was not enough for him. He was surprised to find that anyone could apply at Plan9. It was a very open community that really motivated him. He went on to launch his own company in New Zealand. Within three months of incubation, he raised funding from his old mentor, Mr John.
Then during a business trip to Singapore, he met a representative from Changi Airport who was really interested in deploying Wifigen on their airport. Mr Bilal then started beta testing Wifigen on Singapore’s airport. Later on, he got Unilever Pakistan on board too. But this was only the beginning. He signed on the biggest deal in the history of Wi-Fi at Tahiti Island, which wanted to use Wifigen to give a better experience to tourists. Wifigen then was seen as a product with a huge application in the tourism industry.
What’s next?
Mr Bilal has been trying to integrate artificial intelligence with Wi-Fi for the last three months. He realises that machine learning is necessary to make things easy for the advertisers and the people who will be using its Wi-Fi. It will allow the advertisers to know exactly who the end user is and how deep his pockets are, so they can accordingly pitch them different products.
He wishes to move into more markets as business expansion will be the key driver of Wifigen’s success. His company currently has a multi-million dollar valuation while trying to raise another round of investment. For all those aspiring entrepreneurs out there, he has only one thing to say: “Keep failing until you are ready to change the world.”

mr bilal then started beta testing wifigen on singapore’s airport. freelancing started making him some money. mr bilal was nonetheless adamant that mr john could at least mentor him. mr bilal then got the opportunity to move to lahore. within three months of incubation, he raised funding from his old mentor, mr john. mr bilal then went on to do a project for another lady who had her own consultancy company in new zealand. he went on to launch his own company in new zealand. getting breakthroughs
during his freelancing gigs, mr bilal got a project from someone who turned out to be john russell patrick, the ex-vp of ibm. lahore already had so many companies doing similar work. freelancing really helped,” he recalls. mr bilal has been trying to integrate artificial intelligence with wi-fi for the last three months. mr bilal was distraught; he did not want to go back home and ask his parents for support. “things then started moving in a good direction. she introduced him to someone who wanted to be a reseller for this product in new zealand, but was told to complete the product in two months. this company also specialised in disaster recovery solutions. by this time, he had started working on wifigen already. he did not even have money to buy lunch for three consecutive days. good mentorship
mr bilal was just an ordinary guy who like many other a-levels students was not sure about his future. but just like the band, the company suffered heavy losses and failed within 10 months of operations. after gaining some experience, mr bilal left the company to form his own company – ikhtira systems – in multan, a city chosen specifically because there was no competition in disaster recovery services there. mr bilal argued that he needed funds to complete it in such a short period. he went on to complete two ccie certifications. still 21 years of age, he was used to getting many job offers. the proposed timeline for project completion was 60 days. the reseller in new zealand agreed to fund the project without taking any equity. he then hired some people on freelancer.com to help him build his product within 45 days. freelancing pays
destiny then led him to a guy who told him to start freelancing on the internet. he got his first project in 10 days and although he only made $35 for his first project, he was relieved that at least now, he was earning something. but mr bilal was counselled by his father who being a good mentor told him he would not be able to have a stable career in singing, rather he should utilise his other talent, in computers. he first used a computer when he was only 5 years old. a company from abu dhabi called him to give training sessions in cisco. he used to sleep all day and work all night. with the confidence of some money in his pocket, he went back home and started living with his family in vehari. people used to look up to him and appreciate the fact that he started a company at 22, and now they were making fun of him. but this did not work out. even though, he did not have money to buy his own internet service, being the geeky genius he was, he started hacking into other people’s wi-fi. he pitched wifigen’s idea to him, but although john liked the idea, he said that he did not invest in early-stage companies. then during a business trip to singapore, he met a representative from changi airport who was really interested in deploying wifigen on their airport. he started helping arfa karim’s parents in setting up their institution in plan9. but thankfully within six months of his work there, he realised that his talent was being wasted and his job role was not utilising his cisco expertise at all. his company’s name ‘ikhtira’ was taken from a band he was a part of in high school.


In Pakistan, shopping without bargaining isn’t really shopping – something that online stores unfortunately take away. 
And while bargain hunting can be done on the internet (prices often vary on online stores), it requires users to visit different e-stores in order to find the best prices, which takes time and kills the whole point of convenient online shopping.
One-stop price comparison for cellphones
The e-store was launched in 2015. It does not sell cellphone on its own. The website, still in its beta version, is actually a service that allows users to compare cellphone prices from different Pakistani online stores. Once a user selects a handset, the website displays a list of e-stores where the product is available. By clicking on the tab of a particular store, the user is taken to that store's website where the order can be placed. 
Smartphones are the largest online selling product in Pakistan, which is why PriceOye started with cellphones. The need to expand to other products in the future has also been mentioned, but for now, the website only deals with cellphones.
Credible and up to date
Apart from gathering prices from different online stores, PriceOye also makes sure that prices are always up to date and the offers are credible – two things that other online stores aren’t always able to ensure. It does so by implementing an automatic system that keeps a check on prices offered by legitimate online stores. 
PriceOye also has user-friendly website, with a straightforward presentation of products. It has filters that help narrow down handsets based on price, screen size, processor, camera quality, storage, and operating systems. The website also shows a chart displaying weekly changes in prices of a cellphone. 
Room for improvement
While general browsing is smooth, the website still needs to be more flexible. 
For example, you can only search for the phones by brand and compare the prices between different stores. There is no option to compare different phones in the same price brackets. You can know how much a Samsung phone is available for, but you cannot know what kind of phones are available and where for, let’s say, RS35000-50000. 
Absence of such crucial feature could be deal breaker for some. It’s more efficient to have all your results on one page instead of having to go through five or six pages. An improvement on this front would save users a lot of frustration. As for the mobile version of the website, it does not have all the features yet.
PriceOye is a welcome addition to the growing number of online stores in Pakistan. Small improvements to the the website’s platform will make it much better.  
The author is a graphic designer and freelance writer with a focus on tech.

the website, still in its beta version, is actually a service that allows users to compare cellphone prices from different pakistani online stores. credible and up to date
apart from gathering prices from different online stores, priceoye also makes sure that prices are always up to date and the offers are credible – two things that other online stores aren’t always able to ensure. priceoye also has user-friendly website, with a straightforward presentation of products. priceoye is a welcome addition to the growing number of online stores in pakistan. in pakistan, shopping without bargaining isn’t really shopping – something that online stores unfortunately take away. the website also shows a chart displaying weekly changes in prices of a cellphone. for example, you can only search for the phones by brand and compare the prices between different stores. smartphones are the largest online selling product in pakistan, which is why priceoye started with cellphones. there is no option to compare different phones in the same price brackets. and while bargain hunting can be done on the internet (prices often vary on online stores), it requires users to visit different e-stores in order to find the best prices, which takes time and kills the whole point of convenient online shopping. it does so by implementing an automatic system that keeps a check on prices offered by legitimate online stores. once a user selects a handset, the website displays a list of e-stores where the product is available. by clicking on the tab of a particular store, the user is taken to that store's website where the order can be placed. small improvements to the the website’s platform will make it much better. room for improvement
while general browsing is smooth, the website still needs to be more flexible.


Imagine you have never used a computer in your life and have just bought your first-ever computing device: a smartphone. Peculiar as the new gizmo looks to you, you start experiencing its various uses over the coming months. 
In the beginning, you mostly use it for voice calling and SMS — essentially mimicking the behaviours of your old feature phone. Then one day, you discover the Internet, and with it, through a ubiquitous chat application like Whatsapp or Viber, you learn about online chat. Some days later, you do your first-ever online search and eventually sign up for social networking.
You do not stop there. You remind yourself that the world of the Internet has so much more to offer. Your curiosity and motivation to discover it all starts peaking.  You search for jobs online, skill-building podcasts, livelihood enhancements and educational courses. Through online advice, you improve your health and nutrition indicators. You try entrepreneurship through online buying and selling. You ultimately become a productivity creator — someone who not only consumes productive online content, but also produces it. As a result, you concretely raise your standard of living and become a highly contributing citizen. 
With hundreds of millions of Pakistanis undergoing the same Internet journey, Pakistan leapfrogs across all development indicators within a decade, entering a new era of progress.
An unfulfilled dream
The above is a promising scenario, but there’s a catch. 
You see Pakistan's upper middle class — that is people who were born into technology — have the user capability and the motivation to advance deep into their Internet journeys. But unfortunately the same is untrue for the Pakistani masses, who are only now procuring their first-ever computing devices in the shape of affordable smartphones. Given capability and motivation barriers, only a few of them will likely utilise the Internet to substantially improve their standards of living. 
We will still sell more 3G data bundles, eke out more ICT revenue and get more people online. One or two of Facebook's products will see active growth, and YouTube will get a lot of hits. More smartphones will be sold. All the foreign headquarters of these various companies will see greater revenue repatriation. Local tax collectors will have some more to chew on. 
But the bottom line is: without a carefully drafted digitisation policy, countrywide standards of living will not improve like they should.
The truth is that we are not even gathering actionable analytics on whether connectivity is improving the life of the median Pakistani. Pegging our country's entire digital and technology future on unknown variables is not only short-changing you and me, it's short-changing our children. Five years from now there will be all sorts of post-mortems on what could have been but was not.
A new strategy
The good news is that we can fix this. If we can decipher why and how people falter in their Internet journeys, we can build localised solutions that fill these gaps, helping out our entire population. 
Let’s take a closer look at a typical Internet journey.
As one progresses along this journey, the difficulty increases at every step. Most of the actions on the left are merely a few clicks away. But the actions on the right — the ones that can bring the biggest changes to people's lives — require enhanced user capability, organised digital habits, experience and high motivation. 
To get maximum juice from digitising Pakistan, we will need to invest in enabling the masses’ access to all these productive actions. 
Only if a sizeable portion of our population gets far in their Internet journey, will we be able to call our digitisation successful.
Helping ourselves
Once this strategy bears fruit, we would have empowered all Pakistanis to actively use the computing power they have in their pocket to reinforce their livelihoods, their education and worldliness, their health and nutrition; their entire lives. It would ignite an Internet economy that helps local technology companies too. Moreover, it would give birth to more job creators per capita than our country has ever produced.
In other words, we're in trouble! But the kind of digitisation described above can help slow down this oncoming freight train by helping our people help themselves.
It is true that Pakistan does not have the resources to roll out a digital literacy drive that teaches 200 million Pakistanis why and how to use the Internet effectively. Relying on manual measures will not scale. Instead, we must invest in firstly, intelligent technology that can self-teach its user, and secondly, hyper-localising such technology for the masses. 
These might sound like fancy terminologies and solutions, but Pakistan has the minds to do it. Moreover, synergistic projects from across the border ought to be welcomed as well (and vice versa) since connectivity is a regional issue in South Asia, and not just a Pakistani one.
Competing in the ‘Era of Exponentialism’
Just recently, I talked about connectivity in person with Facebook’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg. This was in April, right after his keynote speech at the recent Facebook conference. Along with other industry thought leaders from names like Tesla and Amazon, the select gathering of about 12 brainstormed how to build globally inclusive technology. We exchanged ideas, which will likely shape our shared future in one form or the other. 
But sitting in that room, I also noted the gaps in the Silicon Valley worldview. 
We will need to fill these gaps ourselves, building our own solutions. A country like Pakistan cannot afford to make a false start in its quest for digitisation, for catching up becomes impossible when your peers are galloping away exponentially. Technology is inheriting the world; we will be truly doomed if we are left stranded on the wrong side of the fence. The state must act now; first defining a decisive digital strategy and then empowering the right people to execute it. Getting these fundamentals right will be pivotal for Pakistan’s future.
Header photo: AFP

it would ignite an internet economy that helps local technology companies too. through online advice, you improve your health and nutrition indicators. you see pakistan's upper middle class — that is people who were born into technology — have the user capability and the motivation to advance deep into their internet journeys. getting these fundamentals right will be pivotal for pakistan’s future. if we can decipher why and how people falter in their internet journeys, we can build localised solutions that fill these gaps, helping out our entire population. then one day, you discover the internet, and with it, through a ubiquitous chat application like whatsapp or viber, you learn about online chat. the state must act now; first defining a decisive digital strategy and then empowering the right people to execute it. with hundreds of millions of pakistanis undergoing the same internet journey, pakistan leapfrogs across all development indicators within a decade, entering a new era of progress. given capability and motivation barriers, only a few of them will likely utilise the internet to substantially improve their standards of living. let’s take a closer look at a typical internet journey. we will need to fill these gaps ourselves, building our own solutions. instead, we must invest in firstly, intelligent technology that can self-teach its user, and secondly, hyper-localising such technology for the masses. to get maximum juice from digitising pakistan, we will need to invest in enabling the masses’ access to all these productive actions. but the actions on the right — the ones that can bring the biggest changes to people's lives — require enhanced user capability, organised digital habits, experience and high motivation. as one progresses along this journey, the difficulty increases at every step. we will still sell more 3g data bundles, eke out more ict revenue and get more people online. pegging our country's entire digital and technology future on unknown variables is not only short-changing you and me, it's short-changing our children. these might sound like fancy terminologies and solutions, but pakistan has the minds to do it. but the bottom line is: without a carefully drafted digitisation policy, countrywide standards of living will not improve like they should. one or two of facebook's products will see active growth, and youtube will get a lot of hits. but the kind of digitisation described above can help slow down this oncoming freight train by helping our people help themselves. a country like pakistan cannot afford to make a false start in its quest for digitisation, for catching up becomes impossible when your peers are galloping away exponentially. it is true that pakistan does not have the resources to roll out a digital literacy drive that teaches 200 million pakistanis why and how to use the internet effectively. helping ourselves
once this strategy bears fruit, we would have empowered all pakistanis to actively use the computing power they have in their pocket to reinforce their livelihoods, their education and worldliness, their health and nutrition; their entire lives. we exchanged ideas, which will likely shape our shared future in one form or the other. moreover, it would give birth to more job creators per capita than our country has ever produced. only if a sizeable portion of our population gets far in their internet journey, will we be able to call our digitisation successful. all the foreign headquarters of these various companies will see greater revenue repatriation. you try entrepreneurship through online buying and selling. along with other industry thought leaders from names like tesla and amazon, the select gathering of about 12 brainstormed how to build globally inclusive technology. you search for jobs online, skill-building podcasts, livelihood enhancements and educational courses. you ultimately become a productivity creator — someone who not only consumes productive online content, but also produces it. your curiosity and motivation to discover it all starts peaking. a new strategy
the good news is that we can fix this.


 
Over 30 ideas were pitched on the first day of the event, out of which 10 were shortlisted by the participants for the final round. 
The young teams spent 48 hours turning these ideas into revenue generating business models with the help of mentors and coaches present throughout the two-and-a-half day event. 
“When I first came to attend Startup Weekend, I wasn’t expecting much. I just thought we will do a few activities and go home, but when I came here the second day I realised it was a lot more fun, I made new  friends, and we all worked on a project together," commented Ammar Naqvi, one of the young participants at the event.
"Even though we didn’t win in the end, it was a lot of fun and a great learning experience,” he said.
“My dad forced me to attend Startup Weekend and I’m so glad he did because now I don’t want to leave. It was a fabulous event. I learned so much, made so many new friends. I broke down in the end and didn’t want to pitch because I felt my idea was not worth it, but the coaches and mentors helped me through it and our team won second place,” commented Hani Zeeshan, team member of Project Polaroid. 
These young entrepreneurs presented their final pitches to a room full of fellow aspiring founders, successful startup founders, and a panel of esteemed judges including Nadia Patel Gangjee, Founder of Sheops and Femprow, Sadaffe Abid, CEO and Founder CIRCLE, and Rabia Garib, Co-Founder Toffee TV and The New Spaces. 
British Deputy High Commissioner, Elin Burns was the chief guest at the event. 
The judges were so impressed with all the pitches, they announced small rewards for the winners on the spot. Nadia Gangjee offered to do exclusive online coverage for the winner and runner-up on the She Inspires series on Femprow, Sadaffe Abid offered an opportunity for the winner and runner-up to pitch at the final round of She Loves Tech competition, while Rabia Garib also generously offered to make jingles and ads for all winners which will run on Toffee TV. 
The biggest surprise came from Ashraf Kalim who offered to fund the production of the first 1,000 recycled plastic bags for Re-Green, the team that received the special mention award. 
“The turn out at Startup Weekend Youth was great and the quality of participants and pitches was even better. I am so proud of all these youngsters who pitched so confidently in front of such a big audience. All these young participants are winners because they learnt more about entrepreneurship in last 54 hours than many adults do in a lifetime. They also had fun, made friends and developed ideas that they were passionate about,” said Jehan Ara, President of P@SHA and founder of the tech incubator The Nest I/O.

i learned so much, made so many new friends. “when i first came to attend startup weekend, i wasn’t expecting much. these young entrepreneurs presented their final pitches to a room full of fellow aspiring founders, successful startup founders, and a panel of esteemed judges including nadia patel gangjee, founder of sheops and femprow, sadaffe abid, ceo and founder circle, and rabia garib, co-founder toffee tv and the new spaces.  
over 30 ideas were pitched on the first day of the event, out of which 10 were shortlisted by the participants for the final round. “the turn out at startup weekend youth was great and the quality of participants and pitches was even better. it was a fabulous event. nadia gangjee offered to do exclusive online coverage for the winner and runner-up on the she inspires series on femprow, sadaffe abid offered an opportunity for the winner and runner-up to pitch at the final round of she loves tech competition, while rabia garib also generously offered to make jingles and ads for all winners which will run on toffee tv. they also had fun, made friends and developed ideas that they were passionate about,” said jehan ara, president of p@sha and founder of the tech incubator the nest i/o. the young teams spent 48 hours turning these ideas into revenue generating business models with the help of mentors and coaches present throughout the two-and-a-half day event. i just thought we will do a few activities and go home, but when i came here the second day i realised it was a lot more fun, i made new  friends, and we all worked on a project together," commented ammar naqvi, one of the young participants at the event. all these young participants are winners because they learnt more about entrepreneurship in last 54 hours than many adults do in a lifetime.


 
Pakistan’s first Startup Weekend Youth will kick off today, with talented youngsters pitching their innovative ideas to a room full of future entrepreneurs. 
Young attendees between the ages of 11-16 will get a chance to learn from local entrepreneurs during this weekend event. 
“I’m a strong believer in teaching children about entrepreneurship at a young age, because as we all know, chances are you wont be successful with your first startup, or even the next one." 
Teaching children about entrepreneurship gives them more time to better understand how to build, sustain, and expand a startup. I hope Startup Weekend Youth will be the first step towards entrepreneurship for many of our young attendees and instill in them an entrepreneurial mindset so they grow up to be tomorrow’s leaders and innovators,” she added. 
The young participants will work on the shortlisted ideas during the weekend and develop working business models with the help of mentors and coaches. 
Some of the coaches who will be participating in Startup Weekend Youth Karachi include Saba Khalid, Founder of Aurat Raaj, Sameer Ahmed Khan, Founder of Social Champ, Muhammad Waqas, Co-Founder WonderTree, Amna Asif, Founder Relive Now, and many other successful entrepreneurs. 
Startup Weekend Youth Karachi will focus on children of age 11-16 and give them an opportunity to get a glimpse into the stressful yet exciting life of an entrepreneur.
Startup Weekend demands teamwork, creativity, determination, and focus from all participants, forcing the young minds to dive right in. 
While each team will have access to an adult coach, every team will be expected to manage itself in order to optimise time. 
The final judging will be done on Saturday evening and the star startup will be awarded a trophy.

startup weekend demands teamwork, creativity, determination, and focus from all participants, forcing the young minds to dive right in.  
pakistan’s first startup weekend youth will kick off today, with talented youngsters pitching their innovative ideas to a room full of future entrepreneurs. some of the coaches who will be participating in startup weekend youth karachi include saba khalid, founder of aurat raaj, sameer ahmed khan, founder of social champ, muhammad waqas, co-founder wondertree, amna asif, founder relive now, and many other successful entrepreneurs. startup weekend youth karachi will focus on children of age 11-16 and give them an opportunity to get a glimpse into the stressful yet exciting life of an entrepreneur. young attendees between the ages of 11-16 will get a chance to learn from local entrepreneurs during this weekend event. teaching children about entrepreneurship gives them more time to better understand how to build, sustain, and expand a startup. i hope startup weekend youth will be the first step towards entrepreneurship for many of our young attendees and instill in them an entrepreneurial mindset so they grow up to be tomorrow’s leaders and innovators,” she added.


JazzCash has stepped in to facilitate freelancers in Pakistan by enabling them to directly receive funds from a Payoneer account into their JazzCash account. 
This initiative allows fund transfers to take place instantly and in real time.
How to use the app
Funds from Payoneer can be received instantly in JazzCash Mobile Account. 
Freelancers can register their JazzCash mobile account by downloading the application and then linking
their Payoneer account with it; this step ensures that users do not need to traveling to bank branches and provide extensive documentation for account opening.
The process
Here's how the linking process takes place:
 
Here's how the withdrawal process takes place:
 
Key features
JazzCash and Payoneer's partnership ensures freelancers reap many benefits from the service in as little time as possible. 
Here are the top ones:
Direct payment options
Funds via JazzCash can help customers make payments for the following:

how to use the app
funds from payoneer can be received instantly in jazzcash mobile account. jazzcash has stepped in to facilitate freelancers in pakistan by enabling them to directly receive funds from a payoneer account into their jazzcash account. the process
here's how the linking process takes place:
 
here's how the withdrawal process takes place:
 
key features
jazzcash and payoneer's partnership ensures freelancers reap many benefits from the service in as little time as possible. freelancers can register their jazzcash mobile account by downloading the application and then linking
their payoneer account with it; this step ensures that users do not need to traveling to bank branches and provide extensive documentation for account opening.


India plans to establish its own “very small” space station in the next decade as the country gears up for a first manned mission beyond earth. 
Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) chief K. Sivan said on Thursday that the ambitious project would follow a successful launch of a manned space flight scheduled by 2022. 
“Our space station is going to be very small... useful to carry out experiments,” Sivan told reporters in New Delhi. 
“We are not having a big plan of sending humans on tourism and other things,” he added. 
A space station is capable of hosting crew members for years on end, and provides facilities for experiments and support vehicles to dock. 
India's first manned space mission — named Gaganyaan — is due to take place by 2022, in time to commemorate 75 of years of the country's independence from Britain. 
It will have two or three astronauts on a maximum seven-day mission. 
The Indian announcement comes a day after the country unveiled an unmanned moon lander expected to be launched on July 15 for a touchdown on the lunar surface around Sept 6. 
India successfully sent a first lunar mission to space in 2008, playing a crucial role in the discovery of water molecules on the moon. 
The country has made giant strides on its space journey in recent years and has been a pioneer in low-cost technology. 
It sent a mission to Mars in 2014 for just $74 million — a fraction of the $671 million spent by the United States space agency Nasa. 
ISRO also plans to send a mission to study the Sun in 2020, and to Venus by 2023.

india plans to establish its own “very small” space station in the next decade as the country gears up for a first manned mission beyond earth. india's first manned space mission — named gaganyaan — is due to take place by 2022, in time to commemorate 75 of years of the country's independence from britain. indian space research organisation (isro) chief k. sivan said on thursday that the ambitious project would follow a successful launch of a manned space flight scheduled by 2022. “our space station is going to be very small... useful to carry out experiments,” sivan told reporters in new delhi. the indian announcement comes a day after the country unveiled an unmanned moon lander expected to be launched on july 15 for a touchdown on the lunar surface around sept 6. 
india successfully sent a first lunar mission to space in 2008, playing a crucial role in the discovery of water molecules on the moon. it sent a mission to mars in 2014 for just $74 million — a fraction of the $671 million spent by the united states space agency nasa. the country has made giant strides on its space journey in recent years and has been a pioneer in low-cost technology.


In a statement, released on Monday, the internet and television service provider, powered by Cybernet, said: "As of last evening, internet service through our DR site was successfully tested at full capacity; subsequently, our customers' Internet service was restored to full subscribed speeds."
 
Telephone and analogue TV services were also restored, the statement said and added that while digital television services had been restored, customers might find some channels to be missing.
"We assure you that our head end engineers will be adding these over the course of the day. Because our digital service uses Pemra-mandated CAS to encrypt the broadcast stream, it took us longer than expected to ensure that the encryption was working for all digital HD boxes nationwide," Stormfiber said in its statement.
Stormfiber's head office in Karachi had caught fire on Saturday night, causing services across the city to be disrupted. The service provider, in a statement released on Sunday, said that the fire was contained without any loss to networking equipment or servers
Internet access for StormFiber customers was restored by Sunday morning.
Sharing an update on Sunday about internet connectivity, the company said some customers may experience a slowness in speed at this time. "However, these speeds should be back to normal as our network operations team increases traffic loads," said the update.

in a statement, released on monday, the internet and television service provider, powered by cybernet, said: "as of last evening, internet service through our dr site was successfully tested at full capacity; subsequently, our customers' internet service was restored to full subscribed speeds." the service provider, in a statement released on sunday, said that the fire was contained without any loss to networking equipment or servers
internet access for stormfiber customers was restored by sunday morning. telephone and analogue tv services were also restored, the statement said and added that while digital television services had been restored, customers might find some channels to be missing. sharing an update on sunday about internet connectivity, the company said some customers may experience a slowness in speed at this time. because our digital service uses pemra-mandated cas to encrypt the broadcast stream, it took us longer than expected to ensure that the encryption was working for all digital hd boxes nationwide," stormfiber said in its statement.


Google has recently launched its Roman Urdu to Urdu Google Keyboard (Gboard) feature for both Android and iOS.
Gboard will also allow users to convert Roman texts to not just Urdu, but also into Sindhi, Punjabi and Kashmiri script, according to TJ.
Google already had full Urdu, Kashmiri and Sindhi text scripts in Gboard options.
Get Gboard's Roman Urdu to Urdu feature

get gboard's roman urdu to urdu feature google has recently launched its roman urdu to urdu google keyboard (gboard) feature for both android and ios. google already had full urdu, kashmiri and sindhi text scripts in gboard options.


Newly launched Android game ‘Pak Truck Driver’ is arguably the most exciting driving game to have come out of Pakistan. By putting you behind the wheel of a beautifully decorated truck, it takes you through Pakistan’s breathtaking mountain ranges. 
Your task is to carry consignments from one location to another while ensuring minimum damage to the shipment. The narrow and dangerous roads, lofty speed breakers, and tricky curves add to difficulty and excitement.
The trucking experience of course, is not complete without the flamboyant truck horns and folk music in the background; and ‘Apex Logics’, the developers behind the game, have incorporated these elements into the game with style. 
Thumbs up for game play
'Pak Truck Driver' is crafted to incentivise good performance. 
You have two trucks in your garage but you must use only one to clear five levels before you earn keys to the second truck. 
The game is based on one long, continuous road, which is divided into multiple stops, through the mountains. 
Much like in real life, careless driving in the game will not only knock the goods out of your truck, but it will also cost you a life [in the game].
Overall, the game is simple but the last few levels stand out as much more challenging than the rest.
The 3D graphics are fairly pleasant. The blue sky, rocky, snow-top mountains, green pastures are a leaf out of one the world’s most beautiful destinations.
More positives: You are in control
It is always good to have multiple camera angles, although every time you end up sticking to one that gives you more control. 
'Pak Truck Driver' gives you the options of being the truck's driver and viewing your decked out truck rumble through the terrain from a slightly more distant angle. 
Not to worry – the different camera angles have no bearing over the game play.
Carrying logs, barrels, and boxes to their destination safely is the central theme of the game.
The suspension of the truck is fairly responsive. The truck reacts, as they do, when you apply the brakes or take sharp turns. 
What more; the tilt-to-turn feature may end up helping you burn a couple of calories!
The signature Pakistani truck horn is right there to be used. It may not have much use in the game but blowing it is fun nevertheless. 
Perhaps that is just the nature of our horns.
The downside: Unwanted banners
Of course this isn't the perfect truck driving game.
Ostensibly, banners and ads are the bread and butter of game developers but it isn't wise to have a banner pop up during game play. 
It affects your performance adversely, and causes unwanted hindrance. 
There is also a fair bit of room for improvement in the graphics department.
The back of the truck seems paper thin, the speedometer needle doesn’t move, and the dashboard is unrealistically flat and bland.
To expect subtlety in Pakistani truck art is plain naivety, yet it feels that the game developers went a bit over-the-top in painting those trucks. 
Some advice
While 'Pak Truck Driver' is a must-have for those into driving games, the developers can do a bit more to add quality to the player’s experience.  
It would be useful to have a scoring system based on the time travelled along integration with Google Play to track records and progress of the players. 
Newer locations, fresher terrains, and a wider variety of trucks are the requirements of this game. 
Another feature that could have been improved was the presence of other cars on the roads, as it would be an effective way to increase difficulty and make the experience more exciting for the player.
Nonetheless, this is a novel idea which is executed with style. 
The author is a graphic designer and freelance writer with a focus on tech.

thumbs up for game play
'pak truck driver' is crafted to incentivise good performance. the downside: unwanted banners
of course this isn't the perfect truck driving game. newly launched android game ‘pak truck driver’ is arguably the most exciting driving game to have come out of pakistan. 'pak truck driver' gives you the options of being the truck's driver and viewing your decked out truck rumble through the terrain from a slightly more distant angle. the suspension of the truck is fairly responsive. much like in real life, careless driving in the game will not only knock the goods out of your truck, but it will also cost you a life [in the game]. some advice
while 'pak truck driver' is a must-have for those into driving games, the developers can do a bit more to add quality to the player’s experience. to expect subtlety in pakistani truck art is plain naivety, yet it feels that the game developers went a bit over-the-top in painting those trucks. the trucking experience of course, is not complete without the flamboyant truck horns and folk music in the background; and ‘apex logics’, the developers behind the game, have incorporated these elements into the game with style. not to worry – the different camera angles have no bearing over the game play. ostensibly, banners and ads are the bread and butter of game developers but it isn't wise to have a banner pop up during game play. the game is based on one long, continuous road, which is divided into multiple stops, through the mountains. it may not have much use in the game but blowing it is fun nevertheless. the signature pakistani truck horn is right there to be used. you have two trucks in your garage but you must use only one to clear five levels before you earn keys to the second truck. more positives: you are in control
it is always good to have multiple camera angles, although every time you end up sticking to one that gives you more control. newer locations, fresher terrains, and a wider variety of trucks are the requirements of this game. overall, the game is simple but the last few levels stand out as much more challenging than the rest. the 3d graphics are fairly pleasant. by putting you behind the wheel of a beautifully decorated truck, it takes you through pakistan’s breathtaking mountain ranges. the truck reacts, as they do, when you apply the brakes or take sharp turns.


Internet users faced disruptions in parts of the country on Monday as a submarine cable developed a fault near Fujairah, UAE, according to Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA).
The PTA said some users might have faced degradation in services due to the fault, adding that "the faulty cable segment has been repaired and work is underway to make the services fully functional."
 
The authority said it was monitoring the situation and would continue to update on it.

the pta said some users might have faced degradation in services due to the fault, adding that "the faulty cable segment has been repaired and work is underway to make the services fully functional." internet users faced disruptions in parts of the country on monday as a submarine cable developed a fault near fujairah, uae, according to pakistan telecommunication authority (pta).


Australia's consumer protection commission said it had started Federal Court proceedings against Meta Platforms for "false, misleading or deceptive conduct" in breach of consumer or securities laws.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

It accused Meta of failing to do enough to stop scam ads for cryptocurrency or money-making schemes, even after being alerted by celebrities who had been misrepresented by similar ads published on Facebook.
Meta vowed to defend itself, saying in a statement that it sought to stop scam ads by using technology to detect and block them.
"We don´t want ads seeking to scam people out of money or mislead people on Facebook — they violate our policies and are not good for our community," a Meta spokesperson said.
The social media titan said it had cooperated with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission's investigation. According to the commission, the ads featured well-known Australians, including former New South Wales premier Mike Baird and businessman Dick Smith.
But the high-profile personalities featured in the ads had never approved or endorsed them, it said.
"Apart from resulting in untold losses to consumers, these ads also damage the reputation of the public figures falsely associated with the ads," said the commission's chair, Rod Sims.
"Meta failed to take sufficient steps to stop fake ads featuring public figures, even after those public figures reported to Meta that their name and image were being featured in celebrity endorsement cryptocurrency scam ads," he said.
The commission said it was aware of one consumer who had lost more than Aus$650,000 (US$480,000) in one of the scams being falsely advertised as an investment opportunity on Facebook.
"This is disgraceful," Sims said.
The consumer protection authority said it was seeking orders from the court including injunctions, penalties, and the payment of legal costs.

"this is disgraceful," sims said. "meta failed to take sufficient steps to stop fake ads featuring public figures, even after those public figures reported to meta that their name and image were being featured in celebrity endorsement cryptocurrency scam ads," he said. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

it accused meta of failing to do enough to stop scam ads for cryptocurrency or money-making schemes, even after being alerted by celebrities who had been misrepresented by similar ads published on facebook. "apart from resulting in untold losses to consumers, these ads also damage the reputation of the public figures falsely associated with the ads," said the commission's chair, rod sims. the social media titan said it had cooperated with the australian competition and consumer commission's investigation. australia's consumer protection commission said it had started federal court proceedings against meta platforms for "false, misleading or deceptive conduct" in breach of consumer or securities laws. "we don´t want ads seeking to scam people out of money or mislead people on facebook — they violate our policies and are not good for our community," a meta spokesperson said. but the high-profile personalities featured in the ads had never approved or endorsed them, it said.


The United States had previously revoked the permits of China Telecom and China Unicom, and the Federal Communications Commission has now given 60 days to Pacific and its subsidiary ComNet to cut service.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"The companies' ownership and control by the Chinese government raise significant national security and law enforcement risks," the FCC said in a statement, adding Beijing could monitor or disrupt US communications.
Beijing criticised the move as "blatantly overstretching the concept of national security."
At a press briefing Thursday, foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said the move was "an abuse of state power, and an unreasonable suppression of Chinese companies."
He said China would "continue to take necessary measures to resolutely safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies."
ComNet did not immediately reply to a request for comment.
The revocation of Pacific's operating authority comes as US President Joe Biden has pressed ahead with a strategy of confronting China broadly in line with that of his predecessor Donald Trump, whose approach sent tensions soaring.
Relations have been fraught between the world's two biggest economies on multiple fronts, including trade, human rights, Taiwan and the Covid-19 pandemic.
China Telecom is China's largest fixed-line operator, but it had faced trouble in the United States for years, particularly during Trump's presidency, as his administration repeatedly clashed with Beijing over trade.
The telecoms companies have fought back against the restrictions, with China Unicom saying in a statement in January that the FCC's decision was "without any justifiable grounds and without affording required due process."

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"the companies' ownership and control by the chinese government raise significant national security and law enforcement risks," the fcc said in a statement, adding beijing could monitor or disrupt us communications. he said china would "continue to take necessary measures to resolutely safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of chinese companies." china telecom is china's largest fixed-line operator, but it had faced trouble in the united states for years, particularly during trump's presidency, as his administration repeatedly clashed with beijing over trade. the united states had previously revoked the permits of china telecom and china unicom, and the federal communications commission has now given 60 days to pacific and its subsidiary comnet to cut service. beijing criticised the move as "blatantly overstretching the concept of national security." the telecoms companies have fought back against the restrictions, with china unicom saying in a statement in january that the fcc's decision was "without any justifiable grounds and without affording required due process."


Sharing screenshots of the chat, the WhatsApp news tracker reported that the developers are working on a feature to keep chat and messages more private as they believe that the most important interaction people have is around private messaging.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

According to the details, Zuckerberg also confirmed that a disappearing mode is coming to WhatsApp that “automatically enables ephemeral messages in new chat threads.”
“Will Cathcart confirmed that multi-device will be rolled out in a public beta within two months,” the platform reported, adding that:

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

according to the details, zuckerberg also confirmed that a disappearing mode is coming to whatsapp that “automatically enables ephemeral messages in new chat threads.”
“will cathcart confirmed that multi-device will be rolled out in a public beta within two months,” the platform reported, adding that: sharing screenshots of the chat, the whatsapp news tracker reported that the developers are working on a feature to keep chat and messages more private as they believe that the most important interaction people have is around private messaging.


The company, which was founded in China but has since been banned there, said it would provide crypto asset trading and portfolio management services under the supervision of the Central Bank of Bahrain.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Binance founder and CEO Changpeng Zhao praised the "stringent criteria of the Central Bank of Bahrain" in terms of anti-money laundering, at a time when most regulators around the world are wary of cryptocurrencies.
Bahrain hopes to become a regional hub for crypto asset companies, as does Dubai.
The Emirate this month also announced the adoption of a virtual assets law and the creation of a crypto asset regulatory authority.
Another major cryptocurrency exchange platform, FTX, also announced on Tuesday the launch of its operations and the opening of a regional headquarters in Dubai.

bahrain hopes to become a regional hub for crypto asset companies, as does dubai. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

binance founder and ceo changpeng zhao praised the "stringent criteria of the central bank of bahrain" in terms of anti-money laundering, at a time when most regulators around the world are wary of cryptocurrencies. the emirate this month also announced the adoption of a virtual assets law and the creation of a crypto asset regulatory authority.


The move comes after Facebook and Twitter were blocked in early March as part of sweeping efforts by Moscow to control information available to Russians about its military operation in Ukraine.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Instagram appeared Monday on a list of "restricted" online resources on a list published by Russia´s media regulator Roskomnadzor.
Instagram´s app was not refreshing without a VPN.
Facebook and Instagram are widely used in Russia, the latter being the most popular social media platform among young Russians.
For many small Russian businesses, Instagram was a key platform for advertising, processing sales and communicating with clients. (AFP)

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

instagram appeared monday on a list of "restricted" online resources on a list published by russia´s media regulator roskomnadzor. facebook and instagram are widely used in russia, the latter being the most popular social media platform among young russians. for many small russian businesses, instagram was a key platform for advertising, processing sales and communicating with clients. the move comes after facebook and twitter were blocked in early march as part of sweeping efforts by moscow to control information available to russians about its military operation in ukraine.


Artemis I will be the first-ever, un-crewed space flight test of the Space Launch System and the Orion spacecraft. The mighty rocket is going to have a trip around the moon and may create a path for the first-ever lunar trip with a woman and a person of colour by 2025.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Once you submit your name, NASA will create a virtual boarding pass for you as well. The flash drive of all the names will orbit the moon for more than three weeks. 
On March 17, NASA will hold a wet dress rehearsal, rolling out the combination of the spaceship and rocket to the launch pad of NASA's Kennedy Space Centre in Florida. The data from the rehearsal will decide the actual date of the launch after judging the equipment and procedures.
"All eyes will be on the historic Launch Complex 39B when Orion and the Space Launch System (SLS) lift off for the first time from NASA's modernized Kennedy Space Center in Florida," the space agency said. 
NASA has long-term goals where they plan to send Artemis II by 2024 if Artemis I proves to be successful. Artemis II is expected to have a team of astronauts orbit around the moon. Artemis III is planned next to be executed as well at the success of Artemis II. 
If all goes well, by 2027, humans might be landing on the surface of the moon for the first time after 1972. 

"all eyes will be on the historic launch complex 39b when orion and the space launch system (sls) lift off for the first time from nasa's modernized kennedy space center in florida," the space agency said. artemis i will be the first-ever, un-crewed space flight test of the space launch system and the orion spacecraft. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

once you submit your name, nasa will create a virtual boarding pass for you as well. artemis ii is expected to have a team of astronauts orbit around the moon. artemis iii is planned next to be executed as well at the success of artemis ii. nasa has long-term goals where they plan to send artemis ii by 2024 if artemis i proves to be successful. on march 17, nasa will hold a wet dress rehearsal, rolling out the combination of the spaceship and rocket to the launch pad of nasa's kennedy space centre in florida.


MOSCOW: Western sanctions against Russia could cause the International Space Station to crash, the head of Russian space agency Roscosmos warned Saturday, calling for the punitive measures to be lifted.
According to Dmitry Rogozin, the sanctions, some of which predate Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, could disrupt the operation of Russian spacecraft servicing the ISS.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

As a result, the Russian segment of the station -- which helps correct its orbit -- could be affected, causing the 500-tonne structure to "fall down into the sea or onto land", the Roscosmos chief wrote on Telegram.
"The Russian segment ensures that the station's orbit is corrected (on average 11 times a year), including to avoid space debris", said Rogozin, who regularly expresses his support for the Russian army in Ukraine on social networks.
Publishing a map of the locations where the ISS could possibly come down, he pointed out that it was unlikely to be in Russia.
"But the populations of other countries, especially those led by the 'dogs of war', should think about the price of the sanctions against Roscosmos", he continued, describing the countries who imposed sanctions as "crazy".
Rogozin similarly raised the threat of the space station falling to earth last month while blasting Western sanctions on Twitter.
On March 1, NASA said it was trying to find a solution to keep the ISS in orbit without Russia's help.
Crews and supplies are transported to the Russian segment by Soyuz spacecraft.
But Rogozin said the launcher used for take-off had been "under US sanctions since 2021 and under EU and Canadian sanctions since 2022".
Roscosmos said it had appealed to NASA, the Canadian Space Agency and the European Space Agency, "demanding the lifting of illegal sanctions against our companies".
Space is one of the last remaining areas where the United States and Russia continue to cooperate.
At the beginning of March, Roscosmos announced its intention to prioritise the construction of military satellites as Russia finds itself increasingly isolated as a result of the war in Ukraine.
Rogozin also announced that Moscow would no longer supply the engines for the US Atlas and Antares rockets.
"Let them soar into space on their broomsticks," he wrote.
On March 30, US astronaut, Mark Vande Hei, and two cosmonauts, Anton Shkaplerov and Pyotr Dubrov, are scheduled to return to Earth from the ISS onboard a Soyuz spacecraft.

moscow: western sanctions against russia could cause the international space station to crash, the head of russian space agency roscosmos warned saturday, calling for the punitive measures to be lifted. roscosmos said it had appealed to nasa, the canadian space agency and the european space agency, "demanding the lifting of illegal sanctions against our companies". according to dmitry rogozin, the sanctions, some of which predate moscow's invasion of ukraine, could disrupt the operation of russian spacecraft servicing the iss. rogozin similarly raised the threat of the space station falling to earth last month while blasting western sanctions on twitter. but rogozin said the launcher used for take-off had been "under us sanctions since 2021 and under eu and canadian sanctions since 2022". crews and supplies are transported to the russian segment by soyuz spacecraft. "the russian segment ensures that the station's orbit is corrected (on average 11 times a year), including to avoid space debris", said rogozin, who regularly expresses his support for the russian army in ukraine on social networks. on march 1, nasa said it was trying to find a solution to keep the iss in orbit without russia's help. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

as a result, the russian segment of the station -- which helps correct its orbit -- could be affected, causing the 500-tonne structure to "fall down into the sea or onto land", the roscosmos chief wrote on telegram. "let them soar into space on their broomsticks," he wrote.


Adam Mosseri, the head of Instagram, tweeted: “This decision will cut 80 million in Russia off from one another, and from the rest of the world as 80% of people in Russia follow an Instagram account outside their country. This is wrong.”

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Giving active users time to manage their content, transfer it to other social media platforms and inform their contacts, the agency has announced that Instagram will be taken down on March 14th.
Even though the Russian oligarchs themselves are on these social networks, the Russian government does not mention that in their notice. For example, Sofia Abramovich, the daughter of billionaire Roman Abramovich, reportedly said that “the biggest and most successful lie of Kremlin’s propaganda is that most Russians stand with Putin.”
Meta’s president of global affairs Nick Clegg believes in providing netizens with the right to freedom of speech, but with this step by the Russian government, it might not be achievable.

this is wrong.”

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

giving active users time to manage their content, transfer it to other social media platforms and inform their contacts, the agency has announced that instagram will be taken down on march 14th. even though the russian oligarchs themselves are on these social networks, the russian government does not mention that in their notice. adam mosseri, the head of instagram, tweeted: “this decision will cut 80 million in russia off from one another, and from the rest of the world as 80% of people in russia follow an instagram account outside their country.


BRUSSELS: The EU and Britain on Friday opened an antitrust probe into a 2018 deal between tech giants Google and Facebook owner Meta allegedly aimed at cementing their dominance over the online advertising market.
The European Commission said it was investigating the so-called "Jedi Blue" agreement to see if it had been used to "restrict and distort competition in the already concentrated ad tech market".

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

EU competition supremo Margrethe Vestager said if confirmed, the arrangement will have served to distort competition, squeezing rival ad tech companies, publishers "and ultimately consumers."
The UK's Competition Market Authority also launched its own investigation into the agreement and the two authorities will "closely cooperate" on the investigation, the EU said.
Chief Executive Andrea Coscelli said the CMA "will not shy away from scrutinising the behaviour of big tech firms... working closely with global regulators to get the best outcomes possible."
The two online advertising behemoths are under intense pressure from publishers and ad rivals as together they overwhelm the online advertising market in much of the world.
The giants faced similar accusations in US lawsuits that Google dismissed as "misleading" and without "credible basis."
According to the accusations, the "Jedi Blue" deal served to oust competition by manipulating ad auctions -- the ultra-sophisticated system that determines which ads appear on web pages based on the anonymised profiles of internet users.
US court documents revealed that the top bosses of Google and Facebook were directly involved in approving the allegedly illegal 2018 deal.
The legal documents filed in a New York court clearly refer to Sundar Pichai, chief of Google's parent firm Alphabet, as well as Facebook executive Sheryl Sandberg and CEO Mark Zuckerberg -- even if their names were redacted.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

eu competition supremo margrethe vestager said if confirmed, the arrangement will have served to distort competition, squeezing rival ad tech companies, publishers "and ultimately consumers." the uk's competition market authority also launched its own investigation into the agreement and the two authorities will "closely cooperate" on the investigation, the eu said. brussels: the eu and britain on friday opened an antitrust probe into a 2018 deal between tech giants google and facebook owner meta allegedly aimed at cementing their dominance over the online advertising market. the european commission said it was investigating the so-called "jedi blue" agreement to see if it had been used to "restrict and distort competition in the already concentrated ad tech market". the two online advertising behemoths are under intense pressure from publishers and ad rivals as together they overwhelm the online advertising market in much of the world. us court documents revealed that the top bosses of google and facebook were directly involved in approving the allegedly illegal 2018 deal.


NEW YORK: US President Joe Biden has ordered the federal government to look into creating a digital dollar, a move with the potential to reshape how money is moved and used around the world.
Before his order results in a virtual greenback, there will be numerous major impacts — and risks — to consider first.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Here are some key questions:
 What form would a digital dollar take? 
It would still be a dollar issued by the US Federal Reserve central bank, like all US bills and coins used now, but in a digital form that is accessible to everyone, not just financial institutions.
Unlike money deposited in a bank account or spent via apps like Venmo and Apple Pay, it would be registered in the accounts of the Federal Reserve, not a bank.
At the same time, the digital dollar would be worth the same as its paper counterpart, a divergence from cryptocurrencies which currently have highly volatile valuations.
Key questions remain unanswered, like whether a digital dollar would be based on blockchain technology like bitcoin or if it would be linked with some sort of payment card.
Biden is asking agencies, including the Treasury Department, to examine various issues on the topic.
If the government decides to go ahead, it could take "a number of years" before we can use a digital dollar -- authorities will have to explore for instance which technology to use, said Darrell Duffie, a digital currencies expert at Stanford University in California.
Why launch a digital dollar?
It would reduce or even eliminate transaction fees since exchanges would no longer go through banks, bank cards or apps that take commissions on every payment.
Proponents say it would help people without bank accounts, about five per cent of households in the United States, and could make it easier for the government to pay benefits.
There are risks like a system failure or a cyberattack, and there are also questions about privacy, as the government could theoretically have access to all transactions.
The banking system could also be undermined as banks currently use customers' deposits to lend to others, and with a digital dollar, they could have less money at their disposal.
How will global finance be affected?
International transfers, often slow and expensive to make, could be greatly eased.
An operation that currently takes two days to be validated could be done in one hour, said Marc Chandler, a foreign exchange expert for the broker Bannockburn.
For Chandler, the geopolitical role of the US dollar would not be upset by the digital version's introduction.
A digital dollar would represent "a natural evolution rather than a revolution", he noted, recalling that more than $6.5 trillion are already exchanged in electronic form every day on the foreign exchange market.
Even if China launches a large-scale digital yuan, as is being discussed, he said he doesn't think that changes China's role in the world economy as "there will always be questions of trust, transparency, depth of markets."
For Stanford's Duffie, however, if the United States wants to continue to benefit from the dollar's status as the dominant currency in central bank reserves and international payments, it is essential that the government tread cautiously.
"The US are going to need to ensure that they stay in a leading position in international forums that discuss standards for making cross-border payments standards for digital currencies," he said.
Can the United States catch up?
Other countries are already working on digital versions of their own currencies, from the eurozone to India, but "there is no evidence to suggest being first to market provides any significant or material advantages," said Jamiel Sheikh, founder of CBDC Think Tank.
On the contrary, failure due to unintended consequences, low usage or other issues can undermine faith in the issuing institution, he noted.
"The overwhelming dominance of the dollar gives the US the luxury of learning from... other countries," agreed Cornell University professor Eswar Prasad.
 Would the crypto world be turned upside down? -
If properly designed, a digital dollar could be more preferable for domestic use than a cryptocurrency, said Duffie.
For international transfers, however, he said he was "sceptical that large central banks like the Fed or the ECB, China or Japan, will give accounts at the central bank to people all over the world."
If the United States did so, he noted, it could wreck the monetary system of small countries whose people might prefer to use the digital dollar rather than the local currency.

why launch a digital dollar? .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

here are some key questions:
 what form would a digital dollar take? -
if properly designed, a digital dollar could be more preferable for domestic use than a cryptocurrency, said duffie. for chandler, the geopolitical role of the us dollar would not be upset by the digital version's introduction. key questions remain unanswered, like whether a digital dollar would be based on blockchain technology like bitcoin or if it would be linked with some sort of payment card. if the united states did so, he noted, it could wreck the monetary system of small countries whose people might prefer to use the digital dollar rather than the local currency. it would still be a dollar issued by the us federal reserve central bank, like all us bills and coins used now, but in a digital form that is accessible to everyone, not just financial institutions. the banking system could also be undermined as banks currently use customers' deposits to lend to others, and with a digital dollar, they could have less money at their disposal. if the government decides to go ahead, it could take "a number of years" before we can use a digital dollar -- authorities will have to explore for instance which technology to use, said darrell duffie, a digital currencies expert at stanford university in california. for international transfers, however, he said he was "sceptical that large central banks like the fed or the ecb, china or japan, will give accounts at the central bank to people all over the world." proponents say it would help people without bank accounts, about five per cent of households in the united states, and could make it easier for the government to pay benefits. would the crypto world be turned upside down? it would reduce or even eliminate transaction fees since exchanges would no longer go through banks, bank cards or apps that take commissions on every payment. can the united states catch up? unlike money deposited in a bank account or spent via apps like venmo and apple pay, it would be registered in the accounts of the federal reserve, not a bank. for stanford's duffie, however, if the united states wants to continue to benefit from the dollar's status as the dominant currency in central bank reserves and international payments, it is essential that the government tread cautiously. a digital dollar would represent "a natural evolution rather than a revolution", he noted, recalling that more than $6.5 trillion are already exchanged in electronic form every day on the foreign exchange market. international transfers, often slow and expensive to make, could be greatly eased.


ROME: Italy's data privacy watchdog on Wednesday fined US-based firm Clearview AI 20 million euros (almost $22 million) over its controversial facial recognition software.
The watchdog ordered the company to delete data relating to people in Italy and banned it from further collection and processing of information there.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Clearview AI says it has built up a database of more than 10 billion facial images taken from public websites, from social media to news sites, which it touts as a tool for law enforcement.
Italy's privacy watchdog said that, despite Clearview's assertions to the contrary, the firm had allowed the tracking of citizens and people in Italy.
"The personal data held by the company, including biometric and geolocation data, are processed unlawfully," the watchdog said.
The company had also violated several principles of GDPR, a European Union privacy regulation introduced in 2018 to control who can access personal data.
In addition to the fine, the watchdog said Clearview should designate an EU representative to act as "an interlocutor" with plaintiffs.
Campaigners have condemned Clearview's use of images for being open to abuse, and a number of groups including Privacy International last year filed complaints with data regulators in France, Austria, Italy, Greece and Britain.
In December, France's privacy watchdog ordered Clearview to delete data on its citizens and cease further collection.
Meanwhile in June last year, Canada's independent parliamentary watchdog ruled that both Clearview's database and the use of it by federal police were illegal.

in december, france's privacy watchdog ordered clearview to delete data on its citizens and cease further collection. "the personal data held by the company, including biometric and geolocation data, are processed unlawfully," the watchdog said. rome: italy's data privacy watchdog on wednesday fined us-based firm clearview ai 20 million euros (almost $22 million) over its controversial facial recognition software. italy's privacy watchdog said that, despite clearview's assertions to the contrary, the firm had allowed the tracking of citizens and people in italy. the watchdog ordered the company to delete data relating to people in italy and banned it from further collection and processing of information there. campaigners have condemned clearview's use of images for being open to abuse, and a number of groups including privacy international last year filed complaints with data regulators in france, austria, italy, greece and britain.


NEW YORK: In protest against Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, streaming giant Netflix has suspended its service in Russia, US media reported Sunday.
The US-based platform had already halted its acquisitions in Russia earlier this week, as well as its production of original programs.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"Given the circumstances on the ground, we have decided to suspend our service in Russia," a spokesperson told the US magazine Variety.
When contacted by AFP, Netflix did not immediately respond.
Netflix is the world's leading streaming platform, with 221.8 million subscribers at the end of 2021.
But it is a minor player in Russia, where it has fewer than one million subscribers, according to The Wall Street Journal.
Netflix joins a host of foreign companies that have announced the suspension of operations or outright withdrawal from Russia since the launch of Moscow's offensive in Ukraine on February 24.
On Monday, Netflix told the website Vulture that it did not intend to comply with a Russian law that requires streaming platforms to offer several free channels, some of which are considered to be government propaganda outlets, from the beginning of March.

new york: in protest against moscow's invasion of ukraine, streaming giant netflix has suspended its service in russia, us media reported sunday. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"given the circumstances on the ground, we have decided to suspend our service in russia," a spokesperson told the us magazine variety. netflix is the world's leading streaming platform, with 221.8 million subscribers at the end of 2021.
but it is a minor player in russia, where it has fewer than one million subscribers, according to the wall street journal. when contacted by afp, netflix did not immediately respond.


PARIS: Ukraine has succeeded in dominating social media in the first days since the Russian invasion, in an intensifying information war with Moscow that Kyiv so far appears to be winning, analysts say.
Even as President Volodymyr Zelensky remains bunkered down in Kyiv amid heavy bombardment and the fear of assassination, his government has forced an all-out assault on social media to win supporters for their cause.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Zelensky's daily video addresses, usually published with English subtitles, have become viral sensations, while the defence and foreign ministries tout the military resistance of Ukraine in snazzy graphics.
Meanwhile, Ukrainians have posted videos showing the success of their forces that have become viral trends, including a Ukrainian missile shooting down a Russian helicopter and a Ukrainian farmer towing away captured Russian military hardware on his tractor.
Self-shot videos of Ukrainians sobbing amid the ruins of their towns after Russia stepped up bombardments have also gripped people around the world.
More unverifiable viral claims have included the so-called "ghost of Kyiv", a flying ace said to have downed a dozen Russian warplanes, or the Kyiv woman who purportedly knocked out a Russian drone with a jar of pickled cucumbers.
"In the first phase of the conflict, in terms of international opinion, the Ukrainians are clearly ahead in information," said Baptiste Robert, founder of Predicta Lab, a French company fighting disinformation.
"The most impressive thing is that it is organic," he said. "There is a real desire of the Ukrainians to document this war. When something happens, they pull out their phones."
- 'Readjusting and trying again' -
Robert said the majority of pro-Ukraine videos doing the rounds on Twitter are genuine, but there have been claims which subsequent fact-checking proved to be exaggerated.
In the early stages of the war, Kyiv hailed as heroes 13 border guards who it said lost their lives defending a tiny Black Sea island after swearing at the Russian forces over the radio.
They had in fact all survived, as the Ukrainian authorities later acknowledged. Ukraine's embassy in Paris denies any deliberate attempt to mislead, saying "we don't do fake news".
Russia, accused of spreading disinformation in the 2016 US election to weigh the balance in favour of Donald Trump, is seen as a past master of such tactics.
But here, the balance is weighed against Moscow. In addition to being deeply unpopular in the West, the initial phase of the war has been far from successful for the Kremlin, according to independent observers.
"I can see them (the Russians) readjusting, refitting, and trying again" on the information front, said Emily Harding, deputy director and senior fellow in the international security programme at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
"But it will still take a little while to get things running."
She said she expected Russia to "push a lot of disinformation into the ecosystem about how the war is going, showing Ukrainian troops supposedly surrendering".
- 'Many Russians buy the narrative' -
However, Russia does not seem hugely concerned about public opinion outside the country, with efforts focused on keeping domestic support behind President Vladimir Putin.
To this end, Russia in the last days shut down the final bastions of free speech media in the country, blocked Facebook and restricted access to Twitter.
"It is true that they (the Ukrainians) are winning, but at the end of the day, the audience Putin cares most about is what his own people think about him," said Darren Linvill, lead researcher at the Media forensic lab of Clemson University in the United States.
"I think many, many Russians buy the narrative."
He added: "For every narrative which is pro-Ukrainian, such as stories about Russian soldiers surrendering without fighting and Ukrainian heroes being lauded for their bravery, you see the same thing in Russia, in the conversation among nationalists, for their own side."
With Ukrainian resistance forcing Moscow into a much longer war than the Kremlin wanted, a new phase in the information war is likely to open up.
If more Ukrainian cities fall to Russian forces, "there will be a new information war between those areas still resisting and the counter-information that the Russians are imposing," said Robert.

"i think many, many russians buy the narrative." if more ukrainian cities fall to russian forces, "there will be a new information war between those areas still resisting and the counter-information that the russians are imposing," said robert. paris: ukraine has succeeded in dominating social media in the first days since the russian invasion, in an intensifying information war with moscow that kyiv so far appears to be winning, analysts say. with ukrainian resistance forcing moscow into a much longer war than the kremlin wanted, a new phase in the information war is likely to open up. she said she expected russia to "push a lot of disinformation into the ecosystem about how the war is going, showing ukrainian troops supposedly surrendering". "in the first phase of the conflict, in terms of international opinion, the ukrainians are clearly ahead in information," said baptiste robert, founder of predicta lab, a french company fighting disinformation. meanwhile, ukrainians have posted videos showing the success of their forces that have become viral trends, including a ukrainian missile shooting down a russian helicopter and a ukrainian farmer towing away captured russian military hardware on his tractor. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

zelensky's daily video addresses, usually published with english subtitles, have become viral sensations, while the defence and foreign ministries tout the military resistance of ukraine in snazzy graphics. "there is a real desire of the ukrainians to document this war. "i can see them (the russians) readjusting, refitting, and trying again" on the information front, said emily harding, deputy director and senior fellow in the international security programme at the center for strategic and international studies. more unverifiable viral claims have included the so-called "ghost of kyiv", a flying ace said to have downed a dozen russian warplanes, or the kyiv woman who purportedly knocked out a russian drone with a jar of pickled cucumbers. in the early stages of the war, kyiv hailed as heroes 13 border guards who it said lost their lives defending a tiny black sea island after swearing at the russian forces over the radio. "the most impressive thing is that it is organic," he said. - 'many russians buy the narrative' -
however, russia does not seem hugely concerned about public opinion outside the country, with efforts focused on keeping domestic support behind president vladimir putin. he added: "for every narrative which is pro-ukrainian, such as stories about russian soldiers surrendering without fighting and ukrainian heroes being lauded for their bravery, you see the same thing in russia, in the conversation among nationalists, for their own side." self-shot videos of ukrainians sobbing amid the ruins of their towns after russia stepped up bombardments have also gripped people around the world. they had in fact all survived, as the ukrainian authorities later acknowledged.


The often-criticized social network is part of a web of information sources that can challenge the Kremlin's preferred perspective that its assault on Ukraine is righteous and necessary.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Blocking of Facebook and restricting of Twitter on Friday came the same day Moscow backed the imposition of jail terms on media publishing "false information" about the military.
Russia's motivation "is to suppress political challenges at a very fraught moment for (Vladimir) Putin, and the regime, when it comes to those asking very tough questions about why Russia is continuing to prosecute this war," said Steven Feldstein, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
Russia thus joins the very small club of countries barring the largest social network in the world, along with China and North Korea.
Moscow was expected to quickly overpower its neighbor but the campaign has already shown signs that it could go longer and could lead to the unleashing of its full military ferocity.
"It's a censorship tool of last resort," Feldstein added. "They are pulling the plug on a platform rather than try to block pages or use all sorts of other mechanisms that they traditionally do."
Earlier this week independent monitoring group OVD-Info said that more than 7,000 people in Russia had been detained at demonstrations over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
Web monitoring group NetBlocks said Russia's moves against the social media giants come amid a backdrop of protests "which are coordinated and mobilized through social media and messaging applications."
The war is meanwhile taking place during a period of unprecedented crackdown on the Russian opposition, with has included protest leaders being assassinated, jailed or forced out of the country.
'No access to truth'
Since Moscow's invasion of Ukraine last week, Russian authorities have stepped up pressure against independent media even though press freedoms in the country were already rapidly waning.
In this context, Facebook plays a key information distribution role in Russia, even as it endures withering criticism in the West over matters ranging from political division to teenagers' mental health.
Natalia Krapiva, tech legal counsel at rights group Access Now, said social media has been a place where independent, critical voices have been talking about the invasion.
"Facebook is one of the key platforms in Russia," she said, adding that its loss is "a devastating blow to access to independent information and for resistance to the war."
Russia has been hit with unprecedented sanctions from the West over the invasion, but also rejections both symbolic and significant from sources ranging from sporting organizations to US tech companies.
Facebook's parent Meta and Twitter however have engaged on the very sensitive issue of information by blocking the spread of Russian state-linked news media.
Russia's media regulator took aim at both, with Roskomnadzor accusing Facebook of discrimination toward state media.
Big US tech firms like Apple and Microsoft have announced halting the sale of their products in Russia, while other companies have made public their "pauses" of certain business activities or ties.
On Friday US internet service provider Cogent Communications said it had "terminated its contracts with customers billing out of Russia."
The Washington Post reported Cogent has "several dozen customers in Russia, with many of them, such as state-owned telecommunications giant Rostelecom, being close to the government."
It's exactly the kind of measure Ukrainian officials have been campaigning heavily for as they ask Russia be cut off from everything from Netflix to Instagram.
Yet experts like Krapiva worry about what that would mean for dissenting or critical voices inside Russia.
"There's a risk of people having no access to truth," she said.
"Some Ukrainians have been calling for disconnecting Russia from the internet, but that's counterproductive to disconnect civil society in Russia who are trying to fight."

russia's media regulator took aim at both, with roskomnadzor accusing facebook of discrimination toward state media. natalia krapiva, tech legal counsel at rights group access now, said social media has been a place where independent, critical voices have been talking about the invasion. earlier this week independent monitoring group ovd-info said that more than 7,000 people in russia had been detained at demonstrations over moscow's invasion of ukraine. web monitoring group netblocks said russia's moves against the social media giants come amid a backdrop of protests "which are coordinated and mobilized through social media and messaging applications." .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

blocking of facebook and restricting of twitter on friday came the same day moscow backed the imposition of jail terms on media publishing "false information" about the military. 'no access to truth'
since moscow's invasion of ukraine last week, russian authorities have stepped up pressure against independent media even though press freedoms in the country were already rapidly waning. on friday us internet service provider cogent communications said it had "terminated its contracts with customers billing out of russia." "facebook is one of the key platforms in russia," she said, adding that its loss is "a devastating blow to access to independent information and for resistance to the war." "there's a risk of people having no access to truth," she said. facebook's parent meta and twitter however have engaged on the very sensitive issue of information by blocking the spread of russian state-linked news media. russia has been hit with unprecedented sanctions from the west over the invasion, but also rejections both symbolic and significant from sources ranging from sporting organizations to us tech companies. yet experts like krapiva worry about what that would mean for dissenting or critical voices inside russia. in this context, facebook plays a key information distribution role in russia, even as it endures withering criticism in the west over matters ranging from political division to teenagers' mental health. "some ukrainians have been calling for disconnecting russia from the internet, but that's counterproductive to disconnect civil society in russia who are trying to fight." the often-criticized social network is part of a web of information sources that can challenge the kremlin's preferred perspective that its assault on ukraine is righteous and necessary.


BARCELONA: The tech industry has long tried to align with the green movement, though its leaders are often accused of spouting nebulous slogans and making hard-to-test pledges.
The Mobile World Congress, an industry get-together in Barcelona, certainly saw some sloganeering. But Huawei, Orange and industry body GSMA attempted to flesh out some of the green claims made about 5G.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

The next-generation mobile network is being rolled out across the globe, with promises of super-fast internet going hand-in-hand with claims of massive benefits for the environment.
Laurence Williams of Sussex university in the UK recently led research assessing the available evidence on the supposed green gains of 5G.
Will 5G be more energy efficient?
Jean-Marie Chaufray of Orange hailed power-saving features such as "sleep modes", whereby components are switched off when they are not being used, and more energy-efficient antennae and other hardware.
He told the MWC that 5G would be "10 times more efficient" than 4G by 2025.
Laurence Williams: "Energy efficiency is only half of the equation. The total amount of data traffic being transmitted across mobile networks clearly matters too.
"Mobile data traffic is set to continue growing dramatically in the coming years. It is increasingly acknowledged that 5G will at least in part be the cause of this data traffic growth.
"Various estimates have been put out by the industry — some suggest network energy consumption will fall, others that it can remain flat, at least one estimate suggests that network energy consumption will rise due to 5G.
"A recent study from Finland estimated that electricity consumption of the main mobile networks in 2017 was roughly 10 per cent higher than in 2010. The authors argue that this was due to rapidly increasing data usage and new functionalities, especially video streaming.
"Whilst this study relates to the period just before 5G started to be rolled out across the world, it nonetheless demonstrates that improvements in the energy efficiency of networks do not guarantee reductions in the energy consumption of networks."
Will 5G help achieve zero-carbon goals?
GSMA's Emanuel Kolta boasted that telecoms companies were "among the leading private sector companies" for committing to net-zero goals.
And he marked out the path to achieving those aims through uptake of renewable energy, more efficient batteries and "low-hanging fruit" like using artificial intelligence to enable component shutdowns in less busy periods.
Laurence Williams: "Encouragingly telcos are increasingly signing up to climate targets and committing to use renewable energy to power their networks.
"While some operators already power their networks with 100 percent renewable energy, a 2021 benchmarking study from GSMA suggested that looking across 31 networks in 28 diverse countries an average of 46 percent of energy consumption was supplied by renewable sources with significant variation between countries.
"The operational energy required to power mobile networks is important, but so is the 'embodied energy' required to produce network infrastructure.
"A lot of research looking at the energy use implications of 5G only looks at operational energy.
"At the very least, we should be sceptical about the claimed energy-saving potential of strategies that require the large-scale introduction of new infrastructure based on assessments that fail to consider the embodied energy costs of that infrastructure."
Does 5G bring wider energy savings? 
Duan Hao from Huawei flagged up the importance of the so-called enablement effect, which he said would "accelerate digitisation and decarbonisation across industries".
The idea is that better connectivity will allow more services and activities to move online, reducing energy consumption from transport and other industries.
Some industry estimates suggest energy saving at a ratio of 10-to-one — every unit of energy invested in 5G will save 10 more.
Laurence Williams: "A University of Zurich study puts this ratio closer to three-to-one, primarily from flexible work, smart grids and precision farming.
"However, others have cautioned that 5G-enabled efficiency improvements may simply lead to the greater consumption of particular goods or services or may only partially substitute for older goods or services —people may still attend in-person meetings and buy physical music alongside teleconferencing and music streaming.
"Even if 5G does produce enablement effects that exceed its own emissions, it doesn't necessarily follow that network operators could be allowed to achieve lower levels of emissions reductions.
"Enablement effects are difficult to estimate or measure and clear accounting mechanisms and principles would have to be established to ensure consistency with carbon budgets and climate policy."

"the operational energy required to power mobile networks is important, but so is the 'embodied energy' required to produce network infrastructure. will 5g be more energy efficient? laurence williams: "encouragingly telcos are increasingly signing up to climate targets and committing to use renewable energy to power their networks. the total amount of data traffic being transmitted across mobile networks clearly matters too. "various estimates have been put out by the industry — some suggest network energy consumption will fall, others that it can remain flat, at least one estimate suggests that network energy consumption will rise due to 5g. "while some operators already power their networks with 100 percent renewable energy, a 2021 benchmarking study from gsma suggested that looking across 31 networks in 28 diverse countries an average of 46 percent of energy consumption was supplied by renewable sources with significant variation between countries. "a lot of research looking at the energy use implications of 5g only looks at operational energy. does 5g bring wider energy savings? "whilst this study relates to the period just before 5g started to be rolled out across the world, it nonetheless demonstrates that improvements in the energy efficiency of networks do not guarantee reductions in the energy consumption of networks." some industry estimates suggest energy saving at a ratio of 10-to-one — every unit of energy invested in 5g will save 10 more. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

the next-generation mobile network is being rolled out across the globe, with promises of super-fast internet going hand-in-hand with claims of massive benefits for the environment. he told the mwc that 5g would be "10 times more efficient" than 4g by 2025.
laurence williams: "energy efficiency is only half of the equation. the mobile world congress, an industry get-together in barcelona, certainly saw some sloganeering. "mobile data traffic is set to continue growing dramatically in the coming years. but huawei, orange and industry body gsma attempted to flesh out some of the green claims made about 5g. "however, others have cautioned that 5g-enabled efficiency improvements may simply lead to the greater consumption of particular goods or services or may only partially substitute for older goods or services —people may still attend in-person meetings and buy physical music alongside teleconferencing and music streaming. the idea is that better connectivity will allow more services and activities to move online, reducing energy consumption from transport and other industries. "even if 5g does produce enablement effects that exceed its own emissions, it doesn't necessarily follow that network operators could be allowed to achieve lower levels of emissions reductions.


WASHINGTON: Tech giant Apple announced Tuesday a halt in all product sales in Russia, the latest fallout over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
Western governments, sporting organizations and big companies have cut Russia off or dealt it punishing sanctions over the internationally condemned attack on its neighbor.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"We have paused all product sales in Russia. Last week, we stopped all exports into our sales channel in the country," said an Apple statement.
The iPhone maker also announced Apple Pay and other services have been limited, while Russian state-owned media RT and Sputnik news apps were no longer available for download outside Russia.
"We are deeply concerned about the Russian invasion of Ukraine and stand with all of the people who are suffering as a result of the violence," the statement said.
"We are supporting humanitarian efforts, providing aid for the unfolding refugee crisis," it added.
Ukraine's defiant government, which has urged its people to battle Russian forces, has asked for help from all quarters, including Apple's CEO Tim Cook.
"I appeal to you... to stop supplying Apple services and products to the Russian Federation, including blocking access to the Apple Store!" Ukraine's digital minister Mykhailo Fedorov wrote in a letter he posted to Twitter Friday.
Tech platforms pulled into conflict
Apple also said that it has disabled both traffic and "live incidents" in Apple Maps in Ukraine as a safety measure for Ukrainian citizens.
"We will continue to evaluate the situation and are in communication with relevant governments on the actions we are taking. We join all those around the world who are calling for peace," the Apple statement said.
The announcement came just as the European Union banned Russian RT and Sputnik from broadcasting in the bloc while banning "certain" Russian banks from the SWIFT bank messaging system.
Tech firms from Facebook to TikTok and Microsoft had already moved to curb the reach of Russian state-linked news outlets, which stand accused of pushing misinformation about Moscow's invasion of Ukraine.
Social media platforms have become one of the fronts in the attack, home to sometimes false narratives but also real-time monitoring of a conflict that marks Europe's biggest geopolitical crisis in decades.
Facebook's parent Meta said Monday it would be restricting access in the European Union to RT and Sputnik.
Video sharing app TikTok told AFP it had restricted Russian state-owned media access on its platform in the EU, while Microsoft said it was removing RT from its app store and would change its search engine Bing's algorithm to shift RT and Sputnik content to lower in results.
Twitter and Facebook have both been hit with access restrictions in Russia since the invasion of Ukraine and are now "largely unusable," said web monitoring group NetBlocks.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"we have paused all product sales in russia. facebook's parent meta said monday it would be restricting access in the european union to rt and sputnik. washington: tech giant apple announced tuesday a halt in all product sales in russia, the latest fallout over moscow's invasion of ukraine. "i appeal to you... to stop supplying apple services and products to the russian federation, including blocking access to the apple store!" the iphone maker also announced apple pay and other services have been limited, while russian state-owned media rt and sputnik news apps were no longer available for download outside russia. tech platforms pulled into conflict
apple also said that it has disabled both traffic and "live incidents" in apple maps in ukraine as a safety measure for ukrainian citizens. twitter and facebook have both been hit with access restrictions in russia since the invasion of ukraine and are now "largely unusable," said web monitoring group netblocks. last week, we stopped all exports into our sales channel in the country," said an apple statement. tech firms from facebook to tiktok and microsoft had already moved to curb the reach of russian state-linked news outlets, which stand accused of pushing misinformation about moscow's invasion of ukraine. video sharing app tiktok told afp it had restricted russian state-owned media access on its platform in the eu, while microsoft said it was removing rt from its app store and would change its search engine bing's algorithm to shift rt and sputnik content to lower in results. "we are deeply concerned about the russian invasion of ukraine and stand with all of the people who are suffering as a result of the violence," the statement said. we join all those around the world who are calling for peace," the apple statement said.


SAN FRANCISCO: In a bid to stop misinformation about Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, tech firms from Facebook to TikTok and Microsoft moved Monday to curb the reach of Russian state-linked news outlets, which stand accused of spreading disinformation about the attack. 
Social media platforms have become one of the fronts in the internationally condemned attack, home to sometimes false narratives but also real-time monitoring of a conflict that marks Europe's biggest geopolitical crisis in decades.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Facebook's parent Meta said it would be restricting access in the European Union to RT and Sputnik, which Western nations have accused of being Kremlin mouthpieces and serving as a platform to argue for war.
The social media behemoth's vice president of global affairs, Nick Clegg, cited the "exceptional nature of the current situation" in announcing the decision but offered no details.
Just hours earlier, Twitter said it would put warnings on tweets sharing links to Russian state-affiliated media.
Twitter's head of site integrity, Yoel Roth, wrote that the platform has been seeing more than 45,000 tweets per day that are sharing links to the outlets.
"Our product should make it easy to understand who's behind the content you see, and what their motivations and intentions are," he added.
In addition to adding labels that identify the sources of links, Roth said the platform was also "taking steps to significantly reduce the circulation of this content on Twitter."
Twitter and Facebook have both been hit with access restrictions in Russia since the invasion of Ukraine and are now "largely unusable," said web monitoring group NetBlocks.
Video sharing app TikTok told AFP it had restricted Russian state-owned media access on its platform in the EU, while Microsoft said it was removing RT from its app store and would change its search engine Bing's algorithm to shift RT and Sputnik content to lower in results.
Apple and Google did not respond immediately to inquiries about whether they would follow a similar course.
Netflix, which faced having to carry Russian state TV stations, said that "given the current situation, we have no plans to add these channels to our service."
'Frequently spread disinformation'
The EU had already announced Sunday a ban on the two outlets broadcasting in member states, with bloc chief Ursula von der Leyen saying they "will no longer be able to spread their lies to justify (President Vladimir) Putin's war."
A Sputnik report fired back over the moves to restrict its access to social to media, saying the "unprecedented bans are a clear assault on free speech, but you can still follow Sputnik on Telegram."
The US State Department, in a report published in January, said the outlets equate themselves with public, independent media like the BBC but in fact "serve primarily as conduits for the Kremlin's talking points."
"RT and Sputnik are not transparent, and their overall goals appear to be fundamentally different from independent media... the Russian government is closely involved," the report said.
"The outlets' reporting and programming openly supports the Kremlin's positions and policies, and both frequently spread disinformation," it added.
The outlets are Russia's primary media directed at non-Russian speakers, with RT offering a global network of channels, websites and social media accounts publishing content in English, Spanish, French, Arabic, German as well as Russian.
News of the RT and Sputnik restrictions came the day after Meta said pro-Russia groups were orchestrating misinformation campaigns on social media, using fake profiles or hacked accounts to paint Ukraine as a feeble pawn of Western duplicity.
The cyber security team at the tech giant -- also parent to Instagram -- said it blocked a set of Russia-linked fake accounts that were part of a social media scheme to undermine Ukraine.

just hours earlier, twitter said it would put warnings on tweets sharing links to russian state-affiliated media. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

facebook's parent meta said it would be restricting access in the european union to rt and sputnik, which western nations have accused of being kremlin mouthpieces and serving as a platform to argue for war. the outlets are russia's primary media directed at non-russian speakers, with rt offering a global network of channels, websites and social media accounts publishing content in english, spanish, french, arabic, german as well as russian. video sharing app tiktok told afp it had restricted russian state-owned media access on its platform in the eu, while microsoft said it was removing rt from its app store and would change its search engine bing's algorithm to shift rt and sputnik content to lower in results. news of the rt and sputnik restrictions came the day after meta said pro-russia groups were orchestrating misinformation campaigns on social media, using fake profiles or hacked accounts to paint ukraine as a feeble pawn of western duplicity. "rt and sputnik are not transparent, and their overall goals appear to be fundamentally different from independent media... the russian government is closely involved," the report said. twitter and facebook have both been hit with access restrictions in russia since the invasion of ukraine and are now "largely unusable," said web monitoring group netblocks. the cyber security team at the tech giant -- also parent to instagram -- said it blocked a set of russia-linked fake accounts that were part of a social media scheme to undermine ukraine. a sputnik report fired back over the moves to restrict its access to social to media, saying the "unprecedented bans are a clear assault on free speech, but you can still follow sputnik on telegram." in addition to adding labels that identify the sources of links, roth said the platform was also "taking steps to significantly reduce the circulation of this content on twitter." "the outlets' reporting and programming openly supports the kremlin's positions and policies, and both frequently spread disinformation," it added. twitter's head of site integrity, yoel roth, wrote that the platform has been seeing more than 45,000 tweets per day that are sharing links to the outlets.


BARCELONA: One of the technology industry's biggest annual get-togethers is set to kick off in the Spanish city of Barcelona on Monday, under the shadow of Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
The Mobile World Congress, where smartphone and telecoms companies show off their latest products and reveal their strategic visions, is expected to welcome more than 40,000 guests over its four-day run.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Organisers hope to return to a full-scale event after two years of disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic.
But Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has hampered preparations for this year's edition, with organisers forced to remove the country's dedicated pavilion.
Industry body GSMA, which stages the annual event, said in a statement it was complying with all sanctions and policies regarding Russia.
It confirmed, however, that Russian firms may still be able to participate.
The invasion has sparked wider jitters, with the industry assessing sanctions slapped on Russia by the United States and Europe and a likely shortage of key raw materials caused by the conflict.
Pandemic woes
The MWC was cancelled at the last minute in 2020 as the pandemic spread from China to Europe, and last year’s edition was drastically scaled down.
The pandemic continues to cast its shadow with big names like Sony, Asus and Lenovo pulling out or participating “virtually”.
But organisers are bullish, with GSMA director general Mats Granryd saying 95 percent of speakers will be in Barcelona.
Among the tech giants confirming their attendance are smartphone behemoth Samsung, as well as Nokia, Ericsson, Google, Huawei and Verizon.
Focuses of this year’s event include the rise of 5G, the opportunities offered by the Internet of Things (IoT), the metaverse and the impact of tech on the environment.
Few new products are expected to be unveiled by the major players, many of whom have showcased their latest releases in the weeks leading up to the get-together.
‘No shelter’
The show will, however, provide Chinese phone makers such as Oppo, Xiaomi and Vivo with a “coming out party”, according to Ben Wood of CCS Insight.
“It’s the first time they will be able to flex their muscles at a big Western trade show,” he told AFP, pointing out that they have all become much bigger during the pandemic.
They are filling a void left by Huawei, which has been hobbled by sanctions imposed by the US in 2019 over accusations its wireless systems could allow spying by Chinese state entities.
The entire industry will now need to reckon with sanctions over the Ukraine invasion, with the US already announcing restrictions on technology exports to Russia.
“The smartphone market, and other technology product markets, are unlikely to remain sheltered from the impact of the crisis in Ukraine, given the economic and geographic significance of both Russia and Ukraine,” said Marina Koytcheva of CCS.
Both countries supply raw materials such as neon and palladium used to manufacture smartphone components.
And the conflict could lead to shortages of many other products and rising prices, which could in turn hit demand for phones, she said.
The smartphone market grew by 5.7 percent last year, with 1.35 billion devices sold worldwide, according to analyst firm IDC.
Samsung sold the most phones followed by Apple and Oppo.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

organisers hope to return to a full-scale event after two years of disruption caused by the coronavirus pandemic. but russia’s invasion of ukraine has hampered preparations for this year's edition, with organisers forced to remove the country's dedicated pavilion. the entire industry will now need to reckon with sanctions over the ukraine invasion, with the us already announcing restrictions on technology exports to russia. industry body gsma, which stages the annual event, said in a statement it was complying with all sanctions and policies regarding russia. barcelona: one of the technology industry's biggest annual get-togethers is set to kick off in the spanish city of barcelona on monday, under the shadow of russia's invasion of ukraine. the smartphone market grew by 5.7 percent last year, with 1.35 billion devices sold worldwide, according to analyst firm idc. pandemic woes
the mwc was cancelled at the last minute in 2020 as the pandemic spread from china to europe, and last year’s edition was drastically scaled down. “the smartphone market, and other technology product markets, are unlikely to remain sheltered from the impact of the crisis in ukraine, given the economic and geographic significance of both russia and ukraine,” said marina koytcheva of ccs. the invasion has sparked wider jitters, with the industry assessing sanctions slapped on russia by the united states and europe and a likely shortage of key raw materials caused by the conflict. samsung sold the most phones followed by apple and oppo. and the conflict could lead to shortages of many other products and rising prices, which could in turn hit demand for phones, she said. both countries supply raw materials such as neon and palladium used to manufacture smartphone components. but organisers are bullish, with gsma director general mats granryd saying 95 percent of speakers will be in barcelona. among the tech giants confirming their attendance are smartphone behemoth samsung, as well as nokia, ericsson, google, huawei and verizon.


SAN FRANCISCO: Pro-Russia groups are orchestrating misinformation campaigns on social media, using fake profiles or hacked accounts to paint Ukraine as a feeble pawn of Western duplicity, Meta said Sunday.
The cyber security team at the tech giant — parent of Facebook and Instagram — said it blocked a set of Russia-linked fake accounts that were part of a social media scheme to undermine Ukraine.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

“They ran websites posing as independent news entities and created fake personas across social media platforms including Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, YouTube, Telegram and also Russian Odnoklassniki and VK,” Meta said in a blog post.
In some cases, “they used profile pictures that we believe were likely generated using artificial intelligence techniques.”
The small network of Facebook and Instagram accounts targeted people in Ukraine, using posts to try to get people to visit websites featuring bogus news about the country’s effort to defend itself from the invasion by Russia.
Meta said it connected the network to people in Russia and Ukraine, as well as media organisations NewsFront and SouthFront in Crimea.
The US has identified NewsFront and SouthFront as disinformation outlets that get marching orders from Russian intelligence services.
The organizations were among more than a dozen entities sanctioned by Washington for trying to influence the 2020 US presidential election “at the direction of the leadership of the Russian Government.”
Meta shut down the bogus accounts and blocked sharing of internet addresses involved in the deception, director of threat disruption David Agranovich said in a briefing.
Bogus claims published by the sites include that the West had betrayed Ukraine and that Ukraine is a failed state, according to Agranovich.
 ‘Ghostwriter’ 
Meanwhile, a hacking group called Ghostwriter believed to operate out of Russia has ramped up action against military figures and journalists in Ukraine in recent days, according to Meta´s security team.
Ghostwriter’s typical tactic is to target victims with “phishing” emails that trick them into clicking on deceptive links in an effort to steal log-in credentials.
The goal of compromising Facebook accounts appeared to be to spread links to misinformation, such as a YouTube video falsely contending to be of Ukrainian soldiers surrendering to Russian troops, according to Meta.
“We’ve taken steps to secure accounts that we believe were targeted by this threat actor,” said Meta head of security policy Nathaniel Gleicher.
“We also blocked phishing domains these hackers used to try to trick people in Ukraine into compromising their online accounts.”
Facebook on Friday restricted Russian state media’s ability to earn money on the social media platform as Moscow´s invasion of neighbouring Ukraine reached the streets of Kyiv.
Gleicher said that Meta had yet to see any throttling of Facebook in Russia, despite the country threatening to hit it with restrictions after it refused to stop using fact-checkers and content warning labels on state media posts.
Social media networks have become one of the fronts in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, home to sometimes misleading information but also real-time monitoring of a quickly developing conflict that marks Europe´s biggest geopolitical crisis in decades.

meta said it connected the network to people in russia and ukraine, as well as media organisations newsfront and southfront in crimea. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

“they ran websites posing as independent news entities and created fake personas across social media platforms including facebook, instagram, twitter, youtube, telegram and also russian odnoklassniki and vk,” meta said in a blog post. san francisco: pro-russia groups are orchestrating misinformation campaigns on social media, using fake profiles or hacked accounts to paint ukraine as a feeble pawn of western duplicity, meta said sunday. “we also blocked phishing domains these hackers used to try to trick people in ukraine into compromising their online accounts.”
facebook on friday restricted russian state media’s ability to earn money on the social media platform as moscow´s invasion of neighbouring ukraine reached the streets of kyiv. the cyber security team at the tech giant — parent of facebook and instagram — said it blocked a set of russia-linked fake accounts that were part of a social media scheme to undermine ukraine. in some cases, “they used profile pictures that we believe were likely generated using artificial intelligence techniques.”
the small network of facebook and instagram accounts targeted people in ukraine, using posts to try to get people to visit websites featuring bogus news about the country’s effort to defend itself from the invasion by russia. “we’ve taken steps to secure accounts that we believe were targeted by this threat actor,” said meta head of security policy nathaniel gleicher. gleicher said that meta had yet to see any throttling of facebook in russia, despite the country threatening to hit it with restrictions after it refused to stop using fact-checkers and content warning labels on state media posts. bogus claims published by the sites include that the west had betrayed ukraine and that ukraine is a failed state, according to agranovich.


SAN FRANCISCO: Meta chief Mark Zuckerberg on Wednesday talked up his company's efforts to build the metaverse, an immersive virtual world he has billed as the Facebook parent’s future.
Doubts have swirled about whether the major metaverse investments will pay off for Meta, which changed its name from Facebook last year to highlight its shifting focus — though critics claim it was to distract from negative media reports.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Meanwhile, formidable rivals such as Apple, Google and Microsoft seem poised to compete with Meta on the new virtual terrain.
The metaverse is a 3D virtual world where people will be able to interact using sensors, head gear and other gadgets.
Meta’s early metaverse platform, called Horizon Worlds, already allows people to socialize virtually while represented by avatars.
"The kinds of experiences you’ll have in the metaverse are beyond what’s possible today," Zuckerberg said as he opened a conference aiming to offer a glimpse inside Meta’s development labs.
"That’s going to require advances in a whole range of areas from hardware devices to software for building and exploring worlds."
Artificial intelligence is key to unlocking those advances, according to Zuckerberg, who noted that future platforms will need to be able to understand virtual worlds, and provide translation services for the many languages used in them.
Hit global video games such as Fortnite, Minecraft, and Roblox, which run on traditional gaming platforms, are seen as precursors to the metaverse.
But rivals are not letting Meta's claim to the metaverse go unchallenged.
Google, which stumbled early with augmented reality glasses, has a team of engineers, designers, and scientists "building the foundations for great immersive computing," according to an online job posting.
Apple, meanwhile, has bought start-ups specializing in the field and is rumored to be working on its own mixed-reality headgear.
Microsoft, a video game industry powerhouse through its Xbox system and titles such as "Minecraft," has made a $69 billion deal to buy Activision Blizzard, mentioning the metaverse as part of its motivation for the merger.
Meta’s stock price has plummeted since its most recent quarterly earnings showed growth slipping and its revenue taking a major hit due to Apple’s changes to its ad targeting rules.
In addition to Facebook, Meta’s products include Instagram, WhatsApp, Messenger, and virtual reality headset Oculus.
On Wednesday, Meta shares sank lower than $200 for the first time in nearly two years.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

meanwhile, formidable rivals such as apple, google and microsoft seem poised to compete with meta on the new virtual terrain. but rivals are not letting meta's claim to the metaverse go unchallenged. in addition to facebook, meta’s products include instagram, whatsapp, messenger, and virtual reality headset oculus. meta’s early metaverse platform, called horizon worlds, already allows people to socialize virtually while represented by avatars. san francisco: meta chief mark zuckerberg on wednesday talked up his company's efforts to build the metaverse, an immersive virtual world he has billed as the facebook parent’s future. the metaverse is a 3d virtual world where people will be able to interact using sensors, head gear and other gadgets. hit global video games such as fortnite, minecraft, and roblox, which run on traditional gaming platforms, are seen as precursors to the metaverse. artificial intelligence is key to unlocking those advances, according to zuckerberg, who noted that future platforms will need to be able to understand virtual worlds, and provide translation services for the many languages used in them. doubts have swirled about whether the major metaverse investments will pay off for meta, which changed its name from facebook last year to highlight its shifting focus — though critics claim it was to distract from negative media reports. on wednesday, meta shares sank lower than $200 for the first time in nearly two years.


"We want to give consumers and companies even more control over what can be done with their data, clarifying who can access data and on what terms," commission Vice President Margrethe Vestager said.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

The draft legislation calls for manufacturers to allow owners of connected devices to see what data they are gathering and transmitting, and for the data to be shared with third parties.
It also aims to "rebalance" data-sharing contracts that firms sign up to, to make sure the terms are not unfairly tilted in favour of deep-pocketed conglomerates.
It wants government bodies to be able to access data held by companies in "exceptional circumstances", such as in public emergencies like floods or wildfires.
Importantly, it also wants to "place safeguards against unlawful data transfer" — a proviso that could hit US or other foreign companies that seek to transfer Europeans' data out of the EU against the bloc's data privacy laws.
The EU's internal market commissioner, Thierry Breton, said the Data Act would unlock "a wealth of industrial data in Europe", noting that much of its potential is still untapped.
The commission forecasts the rules would add 270 billion euros ($300 billion) to the EU's GDP over the next six years.
The proposed act is another plank in a digital transformation the European Union wants to implement across its 27 member countries by the end of the decade.
The EU is already a global standard setter for personal data protection and privacy under its General Data Protection Regulation that came into effect four years ago.

importantly, it also wants to "place safeguards against unlawful data transfer" — a proviso that could hit us or other foreign companies that seek to transfer europeans' data out of the eu against the bloc's data privacy laws. the eu is already a global standard setter for personal data protection and privacy under its general data protection regulation that came into effect four years ago. the eu's internal market commissioner, thierry breton, said the data act would unlock "a wealth of industrial data in europe", noting that much of its potential is still untapped. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

the draft legislation calls for manufacturers to allow owners of connected devices to see what data they are gathering and transmitting, and for the data to be shared with third parties. "we want to give consumers and companies even more control over what can be done with their data, clarifying who can access data and on what terms," commission vice president margrethe vestager said. the commission forecasts the rules would add 270 billion euros ($300 billion) to the eu's gdp over the next six years.


However, the updated feature will work on the voice notes only when they're forwarded.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

What's new?
WhatsApp will soon roll it out for both iOS and Android.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

what's new? however, the updated feature will work on the voice notes only when they're forwarded.


ISLAMABAD: A fault in the submarine cable has affected the internet speed across Pakistan on Tuesday.
As per the details, the fault occurred in the TransWorld 1 (TW1) cable at a distance of almost 400 km off the coast of Pakistan. The TW1 cable system spans 1,300 km connecting Pakistan, the United Arab Emirates and Oman.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

“Internet services could cause disruption across Pakistan due to a cut reported in TransWorld 1 (TW1) submarine cable system,” the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) said in a statement.
The PTA said, “A cable cut has been reported in TransWorld (TW1) submarine cable system at about 6 PM on Monday, this fault has caused an outage of international bandwidth and may result in degradation of internet services for users of TransWorld bandwidth.”

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

“internet services could cause disruption across pakistan due to a cut reported in transworld 1 (tw1) submarine cable system,” the pakistan telecommunication authority (pta) said in a statement. islamabad: a fault in the submarine cable has affected the internet speed across pakistan on tuesday. the pta said, “a cable cut has been reported in transworld (tw1) submarine cable system at about 6 pm on monday, this fault has caused an outage of international bandwidth and may result in degradation of internet services for users of transworld bandwidth.”


SAN FRANCISCO: Donald Trump's new social media app started a gradual rollout late Sunday and should be "fully operational" by late March, potentially raising the former president's profile more than a year after he was banned by major platforms.
"This week, we will begin to roll out to people on the Apple App store," said Devin Nunes, CEO of the Trump Media & Technology Group (TMTG), parent company of the new app Truth Social.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"I think, by the end of March, we're going to be fully operational — at least within the United States," added Nunes, who resigned from the US House to lead the Trump group.
Trump has described Truth Social as an alternative to Facebook, Twitter and YouTube, all of which banned him following the assault on the US Capitol by his supporters on January 6, 2021.
The former president has been accused of inciting his followers to use force in a bid to overturn the result of the 2020 election.
On Sunday, the App Store was allowing visitors to pre-order Truth Social starting Monday, the Presidents Day holiday in the United States.
Later Sunday, the app was reported as available to some of those who had pre-ordered.
"It's actually very moving for me to see people that are on the platform that have had their voice canceled," Nunes said.
"We want (customers) to tell us what they would like to have on the platform, which is the opposite of some Silicon Valley tech oligarch freak telling people what they want to think and deciding who can or cannot be on the platform," he said.
Trump and his wife Melania Trump also plan on Monday to offer for sale 10,000 NFTs, or non-fungible tokens, illustrating key moments in the Trump presidency. NFTs are certified digital images that can be bought and sold.
"TRUTH is coming..." congresswoman Elise Stefanik, the third-ranking House Republican, tweeted Friday, in an allusion to the ominous "Winter is coming" catchphrase of television series "Game of Thrones."
She posted a screen grab of her message on Truth Beta, the test version of the new site, saying, "I'm so excited to be on TRUTH!"
And Donald Trump Jr. celebrated on Twitter, posting, "Time for some Truth!!!" and including what he said was his father's first post on Truth Social: "Get Ready! Your favorite President will see you soon!"
The group reportedly has a $1.25 billion treasure chest as it seeks a niche in a crowded conservative social-media marketplace, currently served by platforms such as Gettr, Parler and Gab.
Before being banned by Twitter, Trump had some 89 million followers there and used the platform constantly, both for presidential statements and to attack rivals.
Trump, who is 75, has hinted but never definitively said whether he will seek the presidency again.
He is currently under the shadow of multiple investigations and lawsuits, including over his tax filings and his efforts to cling to power after losing the 2020 election.

and donald trump jr. celebrated on twitter, posting, "time for some truth!!!" "this week, we will begin to roll out to people on the apple app store," said devin nunes, ceo of the trump media & technology group (tmtg), parent company of the new app truth social. san francisco: donald trump's new social media app started a gradual rollout late sunday and should be "fully operational" by late march, potentially raising the former president's profile more than a year after he was banned by major platforms. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"i think, by the end of march, we're going to be fully operational — at least within the united states," added nunes, who resigned from the us house to lead the trump group. on sunday, the app store was allowing visitors to pre-order truth social starting monday, the presidents day holiday in the united states. and including what he said was his father's first post on truth social: "get ready! trump and his wife melania trump also plan on monday to offer for sale 10,000 nfts, or non-fungible tokens, illustrating key moments in the trump presidency. trump, who is 75, has hinted but never definitively said whether he will seek the presidency again. "it's actually very moving for me to see people that are on the platform that have had their voice canceled," nunes said. before being banned by twitter, trump had some 89 million followers there and used the platform constantly, both for presidential statements and to attack rivals. your favorite president will see you soon!" trump has described truth social as an alternative to facebook, twitter and youtube, all of which banned him following the assault on the us capitol by his supporters on january 6, 2021.
the former president has been accused of inciting his followers to use force in a bid to overturn the result of the 2020 election.


Tonga´s telecommunications system has been severely restricted since January 15 when a violent volcanic eruption and tsunami severed its underwater fibre-optic cable.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Musk´s Space X corporation is providing 50 very-small-aperture terminals (VSAT) "and we are looking at how we can best utilize it," Prime Minister Siaosi Sovaleni said Friday.
The tiny South Pacific kingdom was also considering offers to increase Tonga´s internet capacity, which has been operating on a very small bandwidth since the cable was broken.
"It´s something we are testing right now," he said.
Technical staff from SpaceX and the Tonga Government were working on installing the equipment to have it operational from next week.
The volcanic eruption, so powerful it was heard as far away as Alaska and triggered a tsunami that flooded coastlines around the Pacific, shredded an 80-kilometre (50 miles) stretch of Tonga´s undersea telecommunications cable.
Sovaleni said he expected temporary repairs to be completed early next week.

sovaleni said he expected temporary repairs to be completed early next week. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

musk´s space x corporation is providing 50 very-small-aperture terminals (vsat) "and we are looking at how we can best utilize it," prime minister siaosi sovaleni said friday. tonga´s telecommunications system has been severely restricted since january 15 when a violent volcanic eruption and tsunami severed its underwater fibre-optic cable. the volcanic eruption, so powerful it was heard as far away as alaska and triggered a tsunami that flooded coastlines around the pacific, shredded an 80-kilometre (50 miles) stretch of tonga´s undersea telecommunications cable. technical staff from spacex and the tonga government were working on installing the equipment to have it operational from next week.


WASHINGTON: Google announced plans to limit ad tracking on its Android operating system running on billions of devices, a sensitive privacy issue that rival Apple has already moved to address on its iPhones.
Tech giants are under growing pressure to better balance privacy and ad-targeting, as users complain and regulators threaten tougher rules — but the companies themselves try to maintain access to the precious data helping them earn billions in ad revenue.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Apple has about 50% of the US smartphone market while Google's Android software is used on roughly 85% of smartphones globally.
Any changes to Android could therefore impact the data from billions of users.
At present, the internet search giant assigns an identity to Android-powered devices, which enables advertisers to have a profile of people's online habits and thus send them ads they might be interested in.
"Our goal...is to develop effective and privacy enhancing advertising solutions, where users know their information is protected, and developers and businesses have the tools to succeed on mobile," Google said in a statement.
For its part, Apple announced last year that users of its one billion iPhones in circulation can decide whether to allow their online activity to be tracked for the purpose of targeting ads.
It was a change which Apple said shows its focus is on privacy, but that critics noted does not prevent the company itself from tracking its users.
Apple's tweak has sent ripples through the tech world, with Facebook parent Meta saying it expects that policy to cost the social media giant $10 billion in lost revenue this year.
A heavy impact is expected because less data will impact the precision of the ads Meta and other companies can sell, and thus their price.
Online advertising billions
Google gave an indication of the timing of its announced changes, saying "we plan to support existing ads platform features for at least two years, and we intend to provide substantial notice ahead of any future changes."
The company said it is working on ways to better protect users' privacy, which would "limit sharing of user data with third parties and operate without cross-app identifiers, including advertising ID."
It contrasted its plans with Apple's moves, saying, "we realize that other platforms have taken a different approach to ads privacy, bluntly restricting existing technologies used by developers and advertisers."
Facebook reacted to the news with some relief.
"Encouraging to see this long-term, collaborative approach to privacy-protective personalised advertising from Google," tweeted Meta's vice president of ad product marketing Graham Mudd.
While Google argued that the changes would protect users' anonymity, it could also further strengthen the dominance the tech giant already holds over the digital advertising industry.
Google's parent Alphabet pulled in over $60 billion in the fourth quarter of 2021 just in ad revenue, which makes up over 80% of its income.
"Google has a number of ways around (tracking). They are monitoring so much of what you do, and control so much of what goes on in the web search environment," said analyst Rob Enderle.
"Tracking is much more important to Facebook than it is to Google," he added, referring to the search giant's multiple online services that offer more varied sources of user data.

any changes to android could therefore impact the data from billions of users. "google has a number of ways around (tracking). washington: google announced plans to limit ad tracking on its android operating system running on billions of devices, a sensitive privacy issue that rival apple has already moved to address on its iphones. while google argued that the changes would protect users' anonymity, it could also further strengthen the dominance the tech giant already holds over the digital advertising industry. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

apple has about 50% of the us smartphone market while google's android software is used on roughly 85% of smartphones globally. the company said it is working on ways to better protect users' privacy, which would "limit sharing of user data with third parties and operate without cross-app identifiers, including advertising id." "tracking is much more important to facebook than it is to google," he added, referring to the search giant's multiple online services that offer more varied sources of user data. apple's tweak has sent ripples through the tech world, with facebook parent meta saying it expects that policy to cost the social media giant $10 billion in lost revenue this year. it contrasted its plans with apple's moves, saying, "we realize that other platforms have taken a different approach to ads privacy, bluntly restricting existing technologies used by developers and advertisers." online advertising billions
google gave an indication of the timing of its announced changes, saying "we plan to support existing ads platform features for at least two years, and we intend to provide substantial notice ahead of any future changes." for its part, apple announced last year that users of its one billion iphones in circulation can decide whether to allow their online activity to be tracked for the purpose of targeting ads. a heavy impact is expected because less data will impact the precision of the ads meta and other companies can sell, and thus their price.


SAN FRANCISCO: Meta chief Mark Zuckerberg laid out revamped company values, urging workers to be "Metamates" who treat one another with respect and look to the future.
Zuckerberg shared his note to employees on his Facebook page, the revamped credo coming on the heels of the internet giant being renamed Meta in October.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"As we build the next chapter of our company as Meta, we just updated the values that guide our work," Zuckerberg wrote.
Facebook last reworked its professed values in 2007, according to the company's co-founder and chief.
An ethic of "move fast and break things" from Facebook's early days has evolved into simply "move fast" as a team to deliver innovations.
Meta's new credo also calls for being direct, but respectful to colleagues, collaborating as "Metamates."
"Meta, Metamates, Me is about being good stewards of our company and mission," Zuckerberg wrote.
"It's about taking care of our company and each other."
The stated values also call for focusing on the long-term and building "awesome things."
The notion of Zuckerberg urging employees to be Metamates in a morale-building pitch was promptly mocked on Twitter.
Some joked that the word sounded better suited to a bad dating app, or even to sailors on a ship in troubled waters.
"Metamates report to the Metatorium for a Metameeting," read one of the many quips fired off on Twitter.
Others portrayed it as part of an effort to divert attention away from problems at Facebook.
Critics have derided Facebook's rebrand as an attempted distraction from an avalanche of damaging revelations from whistleblower Frances Haugen.
The "Facebook Papers" showed that company executives knew of their sites' potential for harm on numerous fronts, including the uncontrolled spread of hate speech in developing countries as well as Instagram's impact on teen mental health.
"For those of us living in the present, @Meta Facebook isn't 'nicing us to death', Haugen said in a tweet Tuesday.
"Facebook must recognize the damage they are causing today, not pivot to the @Meta-verse and never look back."

"meta, metamates, me is about being good stewards of our company and mission," zuckerberg wrote. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"as we build the next chapter of our company as meta, we just updated the values that guide our work," zuckerberg wrote. san francisco: meta chief mark zuckerberg laid out revamped company values, urging workers to be "metamates" who treat one another with respect and look to the future. facebook last reworked its professed values in 2007, according to the company's co-founder and chief. meta's new credo also calls for being direct, but respectful to colleagues, collaborating as "metamates." zuckerberg shared his note to employees on his facebook page, the revamped credo coming on the heels of the internet giant being renamed meta in october. the notion of zuckerberg urging employees to be metamates in a morale-building pitch was promptly mocked on twitter. "for those of us living in the present, @meta facebook isn't 'nicing us to death', haugen said in a tweet tuesday. the stated values also call for focusing on the long-term and building "awesome things." an ethic of "move fast and break things" from facebook's early days has evolved into simply "move fast" as a team to deliver innovations. "it's about taking care of our company and each other."


PARIS: Google once used the slogan "don’t be evil" to distinguish itself from its competitors, but now a growing number of pro-privacy startups are rallying to the mantra "don’t be Google".
They are taking on Google Analytics, a product used by more than half of the world’s websites to understand people’s browsing habits.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"Google made a lot of good tools for a lot of people," says Marko Saric, a Dane living in Belgium who set up Plausible Analytics in Estonia in 2019.
"But over the years they changed their approach without really thinking what is right, what is wrong, what is evil, what is not."
Saric and many others are benefitting from GDPR, a European privacy regulation introduced in 2018 to control who can access personal data.
Last week, France followed Austria in declaring Google’s practice of transferring personal data from the EU to its US servers was illegal under GDPR because the country does not have adequate protections.
Google disagrees, saying the data is anonymised and the scenarios envisaged in Europe are hypothetical.
Nevertheless, startups see an opening in a true David vs Goliath battle.
"The week that Google Analytics was ruled illegal by the Austrian DPA (data protection authority) was a good week for us," says Paul Jarvis, who runs Fathom Analytics from his home in Vancouver Island, Canada.
He says new subscriptions tripled over that week, though he does not give exact numbers.
Google dominates the analytics market with 57% of all websites using its service, according to survey group W3Techs. The best-established privacy-focused tool, Matomo, accounts for 1% of websites.
The smaller players know they are not going to overturn Google’s domination, rather their aim is to inject a bit of fairness and choice into the market.
‘Behemoth’ application
The supercharging moment for pro-privacy software developers came in 2013 when former CIA contractor Edward Snowden revealed how US security agencies were engaged in mass surveillance.
"We already knew some of it," says Matomo founder Matthieu Aubry. "But when he came out, we had proof that we weren’t just paranoid or making stuff up."
Snowden showed how the US National Security Agency, aided by a system of secret courts, was able to gather personal data from users of websites including Google, Facebook and Microsoft.
Snowden’s revelations helped to solidify support across Europe for its new privacy regulation and inspired software developers to make privacy central to their products.
The first thing the startups have taken aim at is the sheer complexity of Google Analytics.
"You have 1,000 different dashboards and all this data, but it doesn’t help you if you don’t understand it," says Michael Neuhauser, who launched Fair Analytics last month.
Jarvis, who had previously trained people to use Google Analytics, describes it as a "behemoth".
Unlike Google, the privacy-focused products do not use cookies to track users around the web and offer a much simpler array of data, helping them to keep within the boundaries of GDPR.
And they all make this a key selling point on their websites.
‘An alternative internet’
But making a living from these tools is no mean feat.
Saric of Plausible and Jarvis of Fathom both sank time and money into their projects before they could pay themselves a wage.
Both firms still operate with a startup mentality -- tiny teams working remotely across countries having direct contact with clients.
Aubry, who founded Matomo in 2007 when he was in his early 20s, remembers being in a similar position.
"For a long time, we didn’t even have a business around the project, it was pure community," says the Frenchman from his home in Wellington, New Zealand.
But he says his firm now has global reach and he wants to help create "an alternative internet" not dominated by big tech.
His peers are at a much earlier stage but they certainly agree with the sentiment.
Jarvis reckons anyone switching from a big tech product is "a win for privacy" and helps to create a fairer system.
But a huge barrier remains: Google can afford to offer its tools for free, whereas the smaller firms need clients to pay, even if just a few dollars a month.
The privacy-focused firms say it is time to overhaul our understanding of these transactions.
"All of these free products that we use and love, we’re not paying for them with money, we’re paying for them with data and privacy," says Jarvis.
"We charge money for our product because it’s just a more honest business model."

jarvis, who had previously trained people to use google analytics, describes it as a "behemoth". "the week that google analytics was ruled illegal by the austrian dpa (data protection authority) was a good week for us," says paul jarvis, who runs fathom analytics from his home in vancouver island, canada. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

"google made a lot of good tools for a lot of people," says marko saric, a dane living in belgium who set up plausible analytics in estonia in 2019. snowden’s revelations helped to solidify support across europe for its new privacy regulation and inspired software developers to make privacy central to their products. "all of these free products that we use and love, we’re not paying for them with money, we’re paying for them with data and privacy," says jarvis. they are taking on google analytics, a product used by more than half of the world’s websites to understand people’s browsing habits. the first thing the startups have taken aim at is the sheer complexity of google analytics. snowden showed how the us national security agency, aided by a system of secret courts, was able to gather personal data from users of websites including google, facebook and microsoft. google dominates the analytics market with 57% of all websites using its service, according to survey group w3techs. saric and many others are benefitting from gdpr, a european privacy regulation introduced in 2018 to control who can access personal data. jarvis reckons anyone switching from a big tech product is "a win for privacy" and helps to create a fairer system. google disagrees, saying the data is anonymised and the scenarios envisaged in europe are hypothetical. "we already knew some of it," says matomo founder matthieu aubry. last week, france followed austria in declaring google’s practice of transferring personal data from the eu to its us servers was illegal under gdpr because the country does not have adequate protections. unlike google, the privacy-focused products do not use cookies to track users around the web and offer a much simpler array of data, helping them to keep within the boundaries of gdpr. but a huge barrier remains: google can afford to offer its tools for free, whereas the smaller firms need clients to pay, even if just a few dollars a month. "you have 1,000 different dashboards and all this data, but it doesn’t help you if you don’t understand it," says michael neuhauser, who launched fair analytics last month. saric of plausible and jarvis of fathom both sank time and money into their projects before they could pay themselves a wage. he says new subscriptions tripled over that week, though he does not give exact numbers. ‘an alternative internet’
but making a living from these tools is no mean feat. but he says his firm now has global reach and he wants to help create "an alternative internet" not dominated by big tech.


The ballot will not be legally binding but is intended to "confirm the views of our shareholders regarding moving forward", Toshiba said, with a binding resolution to be voted on some time in 2023.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

But the board will hope the vote produces solid enough support for its revised proposal, which also includes selling "non-core" business including Toshiba Tec and other units.
CEO Satoshi Tsunakawa said he would seek a majority mandate from shareholders at the meeting, rather than a more stringent two-thirds majority.
Toshiba last November announced a proposal to spin off two new businesses, one dealing with infrastructure and the other devices.
But last week it revised the plan, saying spinning off a single unit would be less costly and time-consuming and make it easier to list the new firm.
Once a shining symbol of Japan's advanced technology and economic power, Toshiba more recently has faced a series of scandals and losses.
It had appeared to be staging a recovery early last year and rejoined the prestigious first section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange.
But it was plunged into uncertainty in June when shareholders voted to oust the board's chairman after revelations the firm sought government help to influence a boardroom ballot proposed by activist shareholders.
The vote also came on the heels of an unexpected buyout offer from a private equity fund associated with then CEO Nobuaki Kurumatani, with allegations it was intended to blunt the influence of activist investors.
Reception to its initial plan to split into three firms was mixed, and while some analysts said the proposal could help maximise value, there was public opposition from several key shareholders.
The shareholder meeting was announced as Toshiba on Monday downgraded its annual operational profit forecast, citing the semiconductor shortage and rising costs.
The firm cut its operating profit expectations for the year to March to 155 billion yen ($1.34 billion) against an earlier forecast of 170 billion yen.
Annual sales are now seen at 3.34 trillion yen, compared with a previous 3.35 trillion yen forecast.
"We adjusted the annual outlooks to reflect the impact of rising cost of raw materials and transportation as well as the continuing semiconductor shortage," the company said.
It posted net profit of 55.1 billion yen for the three months to December, up from 40.1 billion yen a year earlier.
For the nine months to December, the storied firm's net profit nearly tripled to 114.9 billion yen, against 43.6 billion yen in the same period the year before.
Mio Kato, an analyst at Lightstream Research who publishes on Smartkarma, said the third-quarter results "should not drive a big reaction in my view".

it posted net profit of 55.1 billion yen for the three months to december, up from 40.1 billion yen a year earlier. the firm cut its operating profit expectations for the year to march to 155 billion yen ($1.34 billion) against an earlier forecast of 170 billion yen. for the nine months to december, the storied firm's net profit nearly tripled to 114.9 billion yen, against 43.6 billion yen in the same period the year before. annual sales are now seen at 3.34 trillion yen, compared with a previous 3.35 trillion yen forecast. the shareholder meeting was announced as toshiba on monday downgraded its annual operational profit forecast, citing the semiconductor shortage and rising costs. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

but the board will hope the vote produces solid enough support for its revised proposal, which also includes selling "non-core" business including toshiba tec and other units. ceo satoshi tsunakawa said he would seek a majority mandate from shareholders at the meeting, rather than a more stringent two-thirds majority. toshiba last november announced a proposal to spin off two new businesses, one dealing with infrastructure and the other devices. but it was plunged into uncertainty in june when shareholders voted to oust the board's chairman after revelations the firm sought government help to influence a boardroom ballot proposed by activist shareholders. the ballot will not be legally binding but is intended to "confirm the views of our shareholders regarding moving forward", toshiba said, with a binding resolution to be voted on some time in 2023. reception to its initial plan to split into three firms was mixed, and while some analysts said the proposal could help maximise value, there was public opposition from several key shareholders.


Meanwhile, the company is launching new features in a US regulatory environment that has often taken a laissez-faire approach to emerging technologies, while using terms like Full Self Driving (FSD) that critics view as misleading.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

Videos posted online by Tesla owners show an erratic performance in "FSD Beta," the latest update on Tesla´s driver-assistance system.
Cars can be seen turning awkwardly, knocking down safety cones and lurching unexpectedly.
Earlier this month, Tesla initiated a recall of some 54,000 vehicles equipped with FSD Beta to disable a feature that had allowed the cars to go through a stop sign without fully halting in certain situations.
The episode highlights a downside to Musk´s envelope-pushing approach, which has also been credited with making electric vehicles a mainstream option in the United States and other markets.
"The rolling stop recall was not because of an honest mistake made in engineering, but rather a decision Tesla says was intentional to break traffic laws," said Phil Koopman, a professor at Carnegie Mellon University and a specialist on autonomous vehicles.
The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) launched a probe last year following a series of collisions with first-response vehicles involving Teslas equipped with its "Autopilot" driver-assistance system.
"Tesla´s doing a lot of things that tiptoe around violations of the Safety Act and a lot of marketing that inflates the consumer perspective of what their vehicles are capable," said Michael Brooks, acting executive director of the Center for Auto Safety.
- Shift under Biden -
Under US regulations, new vehicles are not systematically certified by safety officials before they hit the market. Rather, automakers must simply certify that the products comply with the rules.
The NHTSA only steps in if there is a problem with a vehicle that raises questions about its compliance, or if it is thought to be unsafe.
In some cases, regulators may not have any rules governing systems like adaptive cruise control, said Bryant Walker Smith, a specialist on law and mobility affiliated with Stanford Law School.
During Donald Trump´s presidency, NHTSA avoided actions that slowed the development of driverless technology.
But after President Joe Biden took office, the NHTSA began to look more closely at the safety questions connected to driver-assistance programs.
In June 2021, the agency required Tesla and other auto manufacturers that make cars with driver assistance systems or automated driving to report crashes.
It has also made repeated requests for information from Tesla and other automakers during the investigation into the accidents with emergency vehicles.
"We continue to research new technologies, including the driver support features, and monitor their real-world performances," said a NHTSA spokesperson.
- ´Dangerous and irresponsible´ -
Tesla now installs on all new vehicles Autopilot, a system that can match a vehicle´s speed to that of surrounding traffic and assist with steering.
The company also offers features such as auto lane change and parking assistance in packages called "Enhanced Autopilot" or "Full Self-Driving Capability", depending on the countries.
Tesla describes as "upcoming" the feature "auto-steering on city streets".
However, the company has already started testing this function on about 60,000 vehicles that are authorized to download FSD Beta.
"While using Autopilot, it is your responsibility to stay alert, keep your hands on the steering wheel at all times and maintain control of your car," Tesla says on its website.
Tesla has told California officials that its current systems are at "level 2" on the Society of Automotive Engineers scale of autonomy and therefore do not need to comply with rules for autonomous driving.
But Musk said his ultimate aim is a vehicle that can operate without a driver, a function that critics say has already been confounded by Tesla´s use of terms like "Autopilot" and "Full Self Driving."
"What it calls ´full self driving´ literally needs a human driver," Smith said. "Tesla is really trying to have it both ways, in a way that is disingenuous and irresponsible."
Smith contrasted Tesla´s approach with other companies such as Waymo, which have developed technologies that are further along on the autonomy scale with less fanfare.
He called on Tesla to employ technologies that ensure drivers are attentive, avoid misleading consumers and to "act like a trustworthy company."

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

videos posted online by tesla owners show an erratic performance in "fsd beta," the latest update on tesla´s driver-assistance system. in june 2021, the agency required tesla and other auto manufacturers that make cars with driver assistance systems or automated driving to report crashes. meanwhile, the company is launching new features in a us regulatory environment that has often taken a laissez-faire approach to emerging technologies, while using terms like full self driving (fsd) that critics view as misleading. "what it calls ´full self driving´ literally needs a human driver," smith said. but musk said his ultimate aim is a vehicle that can operate without a driver, a function that critics say has already been confounded by tesla´s use of terms like "autopilot" and "full self driving." "we continue to research new technologies, including the driver support features, and monitor their real-world performances," said a nhtsa spokesperson. the company also offers features such as auto lane change and parking assistance in packages called "enhanced autopilot" or "full self-driving capability", depending on the countries. he called on tesla to employ technologies that ensure drivers are attentive, avoid misleading consumers and to "act like a trustworthy company." - ´dangerous and irresponsible´ -
tesla now installs on all new vehicles autopilot, a system that can match a vehicle´s speed to that of surrounding traffic and assist with steering. however, the company has already started testing this function on about 60,000 vehicles that are authorized to download fsd beta. the national highway traffic safety administration (nhtsa) launched a probe last year following a series of collisions with first-response vehicles involving teslas equipped with its "autopilot" driver-assistance system. - shift under biden -
under us regulations, new vehicles are not systematically certified by safety officials before they hit the market. tesla describes as "upcoming" the feature "auto-steering on city streets". it has also made repeated requests for information from tesla and other automakers during the investigation into the accidents with emergency vehicles. earlier this month, tesla initiated a recall of some 54,000 vehicles equipped with fsd beta to disable a feature that had allowed the cars to go through a stop sign without fully halting in certain situations. "the rolling stop recall was not because of an honest mistake made in engineering, but rather a decision tesla says was intentional to break traffic laws," said phil koopman, a professor at carnegie mellon university and a specialist on autonomous vehicles. in some cases, regulators may not have any rules governing systems like adaptive cruise control, said bryant walker smith, a specialist on law and mobility affiliated with stanford law school.


The steps are part of the months-long process of aligning the observatory's enormous golden mirror that astronomers hope will begin unraveling the mysteries of the early Universe by this summer.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

The first picture sent back of the cosmos is far from stunning: 18 blurry white dots on a black background, all showing the same object: HD 84406 a bright, isolated star in the constellation Ursa Major.
But in fact it represents a major milestone. The 18 dots were captured by the primary mirror's 18 individual segments — and the image is now the basis for aligning and focusing those hexagonal pieces.
The light bounced off the segments to Webb's secondary mirror, a round object located at the end of long booms, and then to the Near Infrared Camera (NIRCam) instrument — Webb's main imaging device.
"The entire Webb team is ecstatic at how well the first steps of taking images and aligning the telescope are proceeding," said Marcia Rieke, principal investigator for the NIRCam instrument and regents professor of astronomy, University of Arizona, in a statement.
"We were so happy to see that light make its way into NIRCam."
The image capturing process began on February 2, with Webb pointing at different positions around the predicted location of the star.
Though Webb's initial search covered an area of the sky about equal to the size of the full Moon, the dots were all located near the center portion, meaning the observatory is already relatively well positioned for final alignment.
To aid the process, the team also captured a "selfie" taken not through an externally mounted camera but through a special lens on board NIRCam.
NASA had previously said a selfie wasn't possible, so the news comes as a welcome bonus for space fans.
"I think pretty much the reaction was holy cow," Lee Feinberg, Webb optical telescope element manager, told reporters in a call, explaining that the team wasn't sure it was possible to obtain such an image using starlight alone.
The $10 billion observatory launched from French Guiana on December 25 and is now in an orbit that is aligned with the Earth's around the Sun, one million miles (1.5 million kilometers away) from our planet, in a region of space called the second Lagrange point.
Webb will begin its science mission by summer, which includes using its high resolution instruments to peer back in time 13.5 billion years to the first generation of galaxies that formed after the Big Bang.
Visible and ultraviolet light emitted by the very first luminous objects has been stretched by the Universe's expansion, and arrives today in the form of infrared, which Webb is equipped to detect with unprecedented clarity.
Its mission also includes the study of distant planets, known as exoplanets, to determine their origin, evolution and habitability.

the light bounced off the segments to webb's secondary mirror, a round object located at the end of long booms, and then to the near infrared camera (nircam) instrument — webb's main imaging device. the image capturing process began on february 2, with webb pointing at different positions around the predicted location of the star. .ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

the first picture sent back of the cosmos is far from stunning: 18 blurry white dots on a black background, all showing the same object: hd 84406 a bright, isolated star in the constellation ursa major. "the entire webb team is ecstatic at how well the first steps of taking images and aligning the telescope are proceeding," said marcia rieke, principal investigator for the nircam instrument and regents professor of astronomy, university of arizona, in a statement. to aid the process, the team also captured a "selfie" taken not through an externally mounted camera but through a special lens on board nircam. the steps are part of the months-long process of aligning the observatory's enormous golden mirror that astronomers hope will begin unraveling the mysteries of the early universe by this summer. webb will begin its science mission by summer, which includes using its high resolution instruments to peer back in time 13.5 billion years to the first generation of galaxies that formed after the big bang. the 18 dots were captured by the primary mirror's 18 individual segments — and the image is now the basis for aligning and focusing those hexagonal pieces. though webb's initial search covered an area of the sky about equal to the size of the full moon, the dots were all located near the center portion, meaning the observatory is already relatively well positioned for final alignment. "we were so happy to see that light make its way into nircam."


The micro-blogging platform Twitter was late Friday inaccessible to thousands of users across the globe, Downdetector reported.

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

 
The data from the monitoring website showed that people started reporting the problem at around 10pm. 

.ads_between_content{
	height:auto; 
	width:auto;
	clear: both;
	text-align: center;
}
.ads_between_content .story_ads{
	
}
/*@media (max-width:600px){
	.ads_between_content{
		float:none;
		margin:0px auto;
		text-align: center;
	}
}*/

 
the data from the monitoring website showed that people started reporting the problem at around 10pm. the micro-blogging platform twitter was late friday inaccessible to thousands of users across the globe, downdetector reported.


KARACHI: Meta has launched two new initiatives in Pakistan, focused on womens’ safety online that includes the Online Safety Guide and StopNCII (Non-consensual intimate images) to help users safely navigate cyberspace. 
The critical safety advisory available in English and Urdu is expected to boost digital literacy and responsible online behaviour among users, thereby creating safer online spaces for women to connect and express themselves without restraints.
The safety guide, now available at Meta’s Safety Centre, is part of the company’s efforts to equip and prepare users for the challenges of the modern digital world. Millions of people in Pakistan use Meta platforms to connect and pursue shared interests. 
However, it is always good to update oneself on issues around online harassment, unwanted messages and a range of fraudulent and criminal activities in the online space.
Meta has policies and systems in place to tackle online violence against women, aided by awareness programs to enable and empower them to defend themselves against unscrupulous elements online.
The safety guide features all the tools around safety available on Facebook, Instagram and Whatsapp and explains how women can adopt them for safer internet use and protect themselves from criminal & fraudulent activities.
Keeping the focus on safety, StopNCII was developed with Meta’s expert guidance and funding in collaboration with a global NGO partner —the UK Revenge Porn Helpline — to stop the sharing of non-consensual intimate images (NCII), often referred to as Revenge Porn. 
StopNCII.org has a global footprint and currently services people through regional partners that advocate for local victims. It uses the latest innovative technology to block compromising photos and videos proactively from spreading online.
Meta has localised StopNCII into an Urdu portal as well that can be used by users concerned for their online safety and privacy to initiate a case. Once the case is initiated, Meta can proactively block the spread of the compromising images and videos before they can spread online. 
The technology doesn’t require the images to leave the person’s device, instead only the hash or numerical code is shared with the platform. The portal also integrates information and vital voices of survivors, experts, advocates, and tech partners of Meta for women seeking help and guidance.
Meta’s partner organisation in Pakistan, Digital Rights Foundation (DRF) organised an online roundtable in connection with the launch of the StopNCII portal in Urdu. The participants of the roundtable included representatives from civil society organisations, regional experts from Meta, digital experts and rights activists
Women and vulnerable social media users can use Meta’s dedicated Safety Hub "Safety@Facebook", also available in the Urdu language, to access the necessary information and safety tools for a safe online experience.

karachi: meta has launched two new initiatives in pakistan, focused on womens’ safety online that includes the online safety guide and stopncii (non-consensual intimate images) to help users safely navigate cyberspace. the participants of the roundtable included representatives from civil society organisations, regional experts from meta, digital experts and rights activists
women and vulnerable social media users can use meta’s dedicated safety hub "safety@facebook", also available in the urdu language, to access the necessary information and safety tools for a safe online experience. meta’s partner organisation in pakistan, digital rights foundation (drf) organised an online roundtable in connection with the launch of the stopncii portal in urdu. meta has localised stopncii into an urdu portal as well that can be used by users concerned for their online safety and privacy to initiate a case. once the case is initiated, meta can proactively block the spread of the compromising images and videos before they can spread online. millions of people in pakistan use meta platforms to connect and pursue shared interests. the critical safety advisory available in english and urdu is expected to boost digital literacy and responsible online behaviour among users, thereby creating safer online spaces for women to connect and express themselves without restraints. the safety guide, now available at meta’s safety centre, is part of the company’s efforts to equip and prepare users for the challenges of the modern digital world. the safety guide features all the tools around safety available on facebook, instagram and whatsapp and explains how women can adopt them for safer internet use and protect themselves from criminal & fraudulent activities. the portal also integrates information and vital voices of survivors, experts, advocates, and tech partners of meta for women seeking help and guidance.


 
Google’s plans to bring the feature on desktop remain unclear. Currently, the feature is only for iOS and Android apps. 
Google refused to comment further.

google refused to comment further.  
google’s plans to bring the feature on desktop remain unclear.


It left the Kennedy Space Center´s Vehicle Assembly Building around 5:47 pm Eastern Time (2147 GMT) and began an 11-hour journey on a crawler-transporter to the hallowed Launch Complex 39B, four miles (6.5 kilometers) away.
Around 10,000 people had gathered to watch the event.
With the Orion crew capsule fixed on top, the Space Launch System (SLS) Block 1 stands 322 feet (98 meters) high -- taller than the Statue of Liberty, but a little smaller than the 363 feet Saturn V rockets that powered the Apollo missions to the Moon.
Despite this, it will produce 8.8 million pounds of maximum thrust (39.1 Meganewtons), 15 percent more than the Saturn V, meaning it´s expected to be the world´s most powerful rocket at the time it begins operating.
"Ladies and gentlemen, the world´s most powerful rocket ever right here!" NASA administrator Bill Nelson told a crowd. "We imagine, we build, we never stop pushing the envelope of what is possible."
A symbol of US space ambition, it also comes with a hefty price tag: $4.1 billion per launch for the first four Artemis missions, NASA Inspector General Paul Martin told Congress this month.
After reaching the launchpad, there are roughly two more weeks´ worth of checks before what's known as the "wet dress rehearsal."
The SLS team will load more than 700,000 gallons (3.2 million liters) of cryogenic propellant into the rocket and practice every phase of launch countdown, stopping ten seconds before blast off.
To the Moon and beyond
NASA is targeting May as the earliest window for Artemis-1, an uncrewed lunar mission that will be the first integrated flight for SLS and Orion.
SLS will first place Orion into a low Earth orbit, and then, using its upper stage, perform what´s called a trans-lunar injection.
This maneuver is necessary to send Orion 280,000 miles beyond Earth and 40,000 miles beyond the Moon -- further than any spaceship capable of carrying humans has ventured.
On its three-week mission, Orion will deploy 10 shoebox-size satellites known as CubeSats to gather information on the deep space environment.
Its "passengers" will include three mannequins collecting radiation data, and a plush Snoopy toy, long a NASA mascot.
It will journey around the far side of the Moon, using thrust provided by the European Space Agency (ESA) thruster, and finally make its way back to Earth, where its heat shield will be tested against the atmosphere.
Splashdown takes place in the Pacific, off the coast of California.
Artemis-2 will be the first crewed test, flying around the Moon but not landing, while Artemis-3, planned for 2025, will see the first woman and first person of color touch down on the lunar south pole.
NASA wants to build a permanent presence on the Moon, and use it as a proving ground for technologies necessary for a Mars mission, sometime in the 2030s, using a Block 2 evolution of the SLS.
SLS v Starship
NASA calls SLS a "super heavy-lift exploration class vehicle." The only currently operational super-heavy rocket is SpaceX´s Falcon Heavy, which is smaller.
Elon Musk´s company is also developing its own deep-space rocket, the fully reusable Starship, which he has said should be ready for an orbital test this year.
The starship would be both bigger and more powerful than SLS: 394 feet tall with 17 million pounds of thrust. It could also be considerably cheaper.
The tycoon has suggested that within years, the cost per launch could be as little as $10 million.
Direct comparisons are complicated by the fact that while SLS is designed to fly direct to its destinations, SpaceX foresees putting a Starship into orbit, and then refueling it with another Starship so it can continue its journey, to extend range and payload.
NASA has also contracted a version of Starship as a lunar descent vehicle for Artemis.
Other super heavy rockets under development include Blue Origin´s New Glenn, China´s Long March 9 and Russia´s Yenisei.

sls v starship
nasa calls sls a "super heavy-lift exploration class vehicle." nasa has also contracted a version of starship as a lunar descent vehicle for artemis. the starship would be both bigger and more powerful than sls: 394 feet tall with 17 million pounds of thrust. to the moon and beyond
nasa is targeting may as the earliest window for artemis-1, an uncrewed lunar mission that will be the first integrated flight for sls and orion. sls will first place orion into a low earth orbit, and then, using its upper stage, perform what´s called a trans-lunar injection. a symbol of us space ambition, it also comes with a hefty price tag: $4.1 billion per launch for the first four artemis missions, nasa inspector general paul martin told congress this month. nasa administrator bill nelson told a crowd. with the orion crew capsule fixed on top, the space launch system (sls) block 1 stands 322 feet (98 meters) high -- taller than the statue of liberty, but a little smaller than the 363 feet saturn v rockets that powered the apollo missions to the moon. it could also be considerably cheaper. this maneuver is necessary to send orion 280,000 miles beyond earth and 40,000 miles beyond the moon -- further than any spaceship capable of carrying humans has ventured. artemis-2 will be the first crewed test, flying around the moon but not landing, while artemis-3, planned for 2025, will see the first woman and first person of color touch down on the lunar south pole. the only currently operational super-heavy rocket is spacex´s falcon heavy, which is smaller. nasa wants to build a permanent presence on the moon, and use it as a proving ground for technologies necessary for a mars mission, sometime in the 2030s, using a block 2 evolution of the sls. the tycoon has suggested that within years, the cost per launch could be as little as $10 million. on its three-week mission, orion will deploy 10 shoebox-size satellites known as cubesats to gather information on the deep space environment. it left the kennedy space center´s vehicle assembly building around 5:47 pm eastern time (2147 gmt) and began an 11-hour journey on a crawler-transporter to the hallowed launch complex 39b, four miles (6.5 kilometers) away. other super heavy rockets under development include blue origin´s new glenn, china´s long march 9 and russia´s yenisei.


A user disappointedly asked, "why can't Apple get ever get their releases right the first time?"
Even though this problem occurs each time a new update rolls out, users still have not gotten used to it. 
One user commented that the battery draining this quick was "shocking".
Patience key on battery issue
According to the tech publication, there will come a time after a few days of the update that the iPhone will regain its battery stability. 
When new software gets installed, an iPhone starts to run and update multiple applications in the background. This causes the battery to index and recalibrate.
While it creates an impression of deteriorating battery level, it is actually not deteriorating. 
This, of course, does not apply to older handsets whose battery health is less than perfect or near to it. 
Users can check their battery health by going to Settings, searching "Battery" and clicking on Battery Health. 
Regardless, it'll be a shame to not upgrade an iPhone to iOS 15.4. 
This update brings to you face recognition with mask on, a new American voice to Siri, improved Live Text integration in notes, and a new anti-stalking prompt for AirTags. 

users can check their battery health by going to settings, searching "battery" and clicking on battery health. patience key on battery issue
according to the tech publication, there will come a time after a few days of the update that the iphone will regain its battery stability. this causes the battery to index and recalibrate. one user commented that the battery draining this quick was "shocking". while it creates an impression of deteriorating battery level, it is actually not deteriorating. even though this problem occurs each time a new update rolls out, users still have not gotten used to it.


SYDNEY: Australia announced Friday it is suing Facebook owner Meta over scam adverts for cryptocurrency schemes that falsely claimed to be endorsed by prominent figures.
Australia's consumer protection commission said it had started Federal Court proceedings against Meta Platforms for "false, misleading or deceptive conduct" in breach of consumer or securities laws.
It accused Meta of failing to do enough to stop scam ads for cryptocurrency or money-making schemes, even after being alerted by celebrities who had been misrepresented by similar ads published on Facebook.
Meta vowed to defend itself, saying in a statement that it sought to stop scam ads by using technology to detect and block them.
"We don't want ads seeking to scam people out of money or mislead people on Facebook — they violate our policies and are not good for our community," a Meta spokesperson said.
The social media titan said it had cooperated with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission's investigation. According to the commission, the ads featured well-known Australians, including former New South Wales premier Mike Baird and businessman Dick Smith.
But the high-profile personalities featured in the ads had never approved or endorsed them, it said.
"Apart from resulting in untold losses to consumers, these ads also damage the reputation of the public figures falsely associated with the ads," said the commission's chair, Rod Sims.
"Meta failed to take sufficient steps to stop fake ads featuring public figures, even after those public figures reported to Meta that their name and image were being featured in celebrity endorsement cryptocurrency scam ads," he said.
The commission said it was aware of one consumer who had lost more than Aus$650,000 (US$480,000) in one of the scams being falsely advertised as an investment opportunity on Facebook.
"This is disgraceful," Sims said.
The consumer protection authority said it was seeking orders from the court including injunctions, penalties, and the payment of legal costs.

"this is disgraceful," sims said. "meta failed to take sufficient steps to stop fake ads featuring public figures, even after those public figures reported to meta that their name and image were being featured in celebrity endorsement cryptocurrency scam ads," he said. "apart from resulting in untold losses to consumers, these ads also damage the reputation of the public figures falsely associated with the ads," said the commission's chair, rod sims. sydney: australia announced friday it is suing facebook owner meta over scam adverts for cryptocurrency schemes that falsely claimed to be endorsed by prominent figures. australia's consumer protection commission said it had started federal court proceedings against meta platforms for "false, misleading or deceptive conduct" in breach of consumer or securities laws. it accused meta of failing to do enough to stop scam ads for cryptocurrency or money-making schemes, even after being alerted by celebrities who had been misrepresented by similar ads published on facebook. but the high-profile personalities featured in the ads had never approved or endorsed them, it said. "we don't want ads seeking to scam people out of money or mislead people on facebook — they violate our policies and are not good for our community," a meta spokesperson said.


Decisions are taken usually by a combination of brain and heart giving us both rational and affective elements, respectively.
However, the team suggests that affective components in decisions are directly proportional to prosocial behaviour.
The study involved a widely representative sample. With 1,828 participants, it was intensive research. Participants’ decisions and their perspectives of those decisions were assessed. They were asked to identify whether their decisions were intuitive or deliberative. 
The researchers also noticed that decisions that were intuitive rather than rational had more positive effects. 
Research revealed a lot about human judgment and laid grounds for further studies in altruism.

participants’ decisions and their perspectives of those decisions were assessed. they were asked to identify whether their decisions were intuitive or deliberative. the researchers also noticed that decisions that were intuitive rather than rational had more positive effects. with 1,828 participants, it was intensive research. decisions are taken usually by a combination of brain and heart giving us both rational and affective elements, respectively.


The cybercrime campaign is called "CryptoRom" which distributes fake cryptocurrency applications to both iOS and Andriod users. 
While Andriod applications can be downloaded from third-party Play Stores, iOS traditionally has a stricter check for malware infiltration. 
Apple uses TestFlight to allow new developers to test their applications on 1,000 users before releasing their product on the App Store. 
However, the scammers have found a loophole due to which pre-release applications are not tested on the App Store. 
The developers send the malware embedded in a weblink to the potential testers. For this reason, it is not possible to check whether the link is safe to download. 
The malware-ridden applications are not even known to Apple. 
Users are requested by the company to not download any application or software from unknown sources, even if the link is sent through TestFlight. 

the malware-ridden applications are not even known to apple. apple uses testflight to allow new developers to test their applications on 1,000 users before releasing their product on the app store. while andriod applications can be downloaded from third-party play stores, ios traditionally has a stricter check for malware infiltration. the cybercrime campaign is called "cryptorom" which distributes fake cryptocurrency applications to both ios and andriod users. users are requested by the company to not download any application or software from unknown sources, even if the link is sent through testflight.


The hacker collective shared the names of successfully taken down Russian websites on its official Twitter account with screenshots of evidence attached. The list includes Moscow.ru, Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB), the Analytical Centre for the Government of the Russian Federation, and the Ministry of Sport of the Russian Federation.
The tweet uses the Russian slang “Tango Down” which means the enemy has been defeated during combat.
The Federal Security Service of the Russian Federation is of utmost significance being the primary security agency and the main successor agency to the Soviet Union’s KGB. Similarly, the Analytical Centre for the Government of the Russian Federation is a Russian think tank.
The decentralised organisation has started a cyberwar disabling several websites and signed off this thread of tweets with a Russian curse saying, ‘Blyat Putin!’

similarly, the analytical centre for the government of the russian federation is a russian think tank. the list includes moscow.ru, russia’s federal security service (fsb), the analytical centre for the government of the russian federation, and the ministry of sport of the russian federation. the federal security service of the russian federation is of utmost significance being the primary security agency and the main successor agency to the soviet union’s kgb. the hacker collective shared the names of successfully taken down russian websites on its official twitter account with screenshots of evidence attached.


So what is special about this feature?
Formerly, a voice note stopped when users switched to a different chat on WhatsApp. But now, the users will be able WhatsApp to switch between different chats within the application to send or view another message while a voice note is playing in the background.
"To discover if the feature is available for your WhatsApp account, just play a voice message and go back to your chats list: if you see a new player bar, it means the feature is enabled," the WhatsApp news tracker explains.
Moreover, the feature is not limited to voice notes only, but it will work for the incoming and outgoing audio files too.
However, the feature has been rolled out for certain beta testers so if anyone does not see the feature enabled on their Android version, it means they have not received the update yet. 

formerly, a voice note stopped when users switched to a different chat on whatsapp. "to discover if the feature is available for your whatsapp account, just play a voice message and go back to your chats list: if you see a new player bar, it means the feature is enabled," the whatsapp news tracker explains. so what is special about this feature? but now, the users will be able whatsapp to switch between different chats within the application to send or view another message while a voice note is playing in the background.


But now, WhatsApp is adding the specific waveforms feature to the chat bubbles for the desktop version, after which the feature will be available on all of the platform's versions.
Those who don't have received the version update will not be able to view the new look of voice notes.
However, the WhatsApp news tracker said that everyone should be able to view the feature by now as the company is releasing the update today. But if anyone who has received the update is still unable to view it, it means that the sender of the voice does not have the updated version.

those who don't have received the version update will not be able to view the new look of voice notes. however, the whatsapp news tracker said that everyone should be able to view the feature by now as the company is releasing the update today. but if anyone who has received the update is still unable to view it, it means that the sender of the voice does not have the updated version.


Spotify in a statement said that it has "deprecated" support for Pioneer and JVC-Kenwood. Users who own units from any of these two companies with Spotify integration will not be able to use the online streaming application directly from their car units. 
The real reason behind users' frustration was that these two in-car units had the "Spotify Connect" feature which other Android-powered car units do not have. 
While they can still change and pause/play the music through a USB or Bluetooth after the denouncement, they will now not be able to browse playlists and jump multiple channels at once. 
This decision by Spotify was sudden and not anticipated by users and in-car unit companies. For this reason, the cars that continue to be sold based on Spotify integration even though this feature is no longer included. 
Many users believe that this step was taken by Spotify so they could market and sell their in-car unit, "Spotify Car Thing."

the real reason behind users' frustration was that these two in-car units had the "spotify connect" feature which other android-powered car units do not have. users who own units from any of these two companies with spotify integration will not be able to use the online streaming application directly from their car units. many users believe that this step was taken by spotify so they could market and sell their in-car unit, "spotify car thing." this decision by spotify was sudden and not anticipated by users and in-car unit companies. for this reason, the cars that continue to be sold based on spotify integration even though this feature is no longer included.


 
Saudi Arabia is reviewing Foxconn's offer to build a dual-line semiconductor contract manufacturing facility known as a "foundry" in Neom, a tech-focused city-state it is developing in the desert, the report said, citing people familiar with the matter.
Foxconn, the world's largest contract electronics manufacturer and a major Apple supplier, has expanded into areas including electric vehicles (EVs) and semiconductors in recent years.
The company and other Taiwanese firms like TSMC, are looking to diversify their production amid US-China trade tensions, which have impacted the semiconductor industry.
Besides Saudi Arabia, Foxconn is also talking with the United Arab Emirates about potentially situating the project there, the report said.
Riyadh wants the company to guarantee that it would direct at least two-thirds of the foundry's production into Foxconn's existing supply chain, according to the report.
Foxconn, formally called Hon Hai Precision Industry, has been signing large investment deals, including plans in Taiwan and India. 
Last year, however, it drastically scaled back a planned $10 billion factory in Wisconsin that former US President Donald Trump once called "the eighth wonder of the world".

besides saudi arabia, foxconn is also talking with the united arab emirates about potentially situating the project there, the report said. foxconn, formally called hon hai precision industry, has been signing large investment deals, including plans in taiwan and india. riyadh wants the company to guarantee that it would direct at least two-thirds of the foundry's production into foxconn's existing supply chain, according to the report.  
saudi arabia is reviewing foxconn's offer to build a dual-line semiconductor contract manufacturing facility known as a "foundry" in neom, a tech-focused city-state it is developing in the desert, the report said, citing people familiar with the matter. foxconn, the world's largest contract electronics manufacturer and a major apple supplier, has expanded into areas including electric vehicles (evs) and semiconductors in recent years.


The image captured, thanks to one of the iPhone’s less-known features, is mailed to the owner at the given email address. The owner can know whether or not the messaging application was opened, and if it was, the pictures uncover the mystery of who it was.
Kaansanity shares tons of iPhone tips and tricks on his TikTok channel, including what to do if an iPhone gets stolen.

kaansanity shares tons of iphone tips and tricks on his tiktok channel, including what to do if an iphone gets stolen. the image captured, thanks to one of the iphone’s less-known features, is mailed to the owner at the given email address.


The battle between Apple and Samsung phones is something all of us are aware of. 
Simon Chandler, a tech and finance journalist based in London, compared the two phones, discussing several specifications and giving points to each. 
While Samsung got points for its sleek design and iconic display, iPhone SE won for its camera. For some specifications, the competition was truly tough. For instance, when considering special features and battery life, both the devices had a tie.
Towards the end of his blogpost Chandler said that “It certainly doesn’t look as good, and it’s screen isn’t as enticing, but it beats Samsung’s device in several key areas.” 
He picked iPhone SE over Samsung Galaxy A52 5G for the durability of its updates, superior camera, and speedier performance.
Concluding his comparison, he said that the Galaxy model continues to be a good low-cost device and will not disappoint “Android or Samsung fans”.

while samsung got points for its sleek design and iconic display, iphone se won for its camera. towards the end of his blogpost chandler said that “it certainly doesn’t look as good, and it’s screen isn’t as enticing, but it beats samsung’s device in several key areas.” 
he picked iphone se over samsung galaxy a52 5g for the durability of its updates, superior camera, and speedier performance. concluding his comparison, he said that the galaxy model continues to be a good low-cost device and will not disappoint “android or samsung fans”. simon chandler, a tech and finance journalist based in london, compared the two phones, discussing several specifications and giving points to each. the battle between apple and samsung phones is something all of us are aware of.


He said that the base models, iPhone 14 and 14 Max, will continue to have the standard A15 chips.
Kuo also claimed that all iPhone 14 models will come with a RAM of 6GB and upgraded LPDDR5 memory. The less expensive versions will have LPDDR 4X featured in iPhone 13. 
Such differences are not new. Previously, for example, iPhone 13 Pro featured more RAM and GPU cores in its A15 chip than inside the A15 chip of iPhone 13.
He adds that the iPhone 14 Max will have a Pro-size display of 6.7 inches which would be the first time for a non-Pro phone. This could mean that the “mini” screen will be discontinued.
The iPhone 14 line-up has not been launched yet but the rumours are everywhere. One such rumour is a notch-less iPhone 14. Soon, an iPhone event is expected that will debut the latest lineup.

                                {
                                  "@context": "http://schema.org",
                                  "@type": "VideoObject",
                                  "mainEntityOfPage":"https://www.geo.tv/latest/404997-apple-to-include-new-a-16-chip-in-iphone-14-pro-models-only",
                                  "name": "Apple to include new A-16 chip in iPhone 14 Pro models only",
                                   "duration":"",
                                    "datePublished": "2022-03-14T19:45:00+05:00",
                                    "dateModified": "2022-03-14T19:45:00+05:00",
                                    "keywords":"",
                                     "headline":"Apple to include new A-16 chip in iPhone 14 Pro models only",
                                    "interactionCount": "",
                                    "thumbnail": {
                                        "@type": "ImageObject",
                                        "url": "https://www.geo.tv/assets/uploads/updates/2022-03-14/404997_011045_updates.jpg",
                                        "height": 390,
                                        "width": 700
                                    },
                                  "description": "Apple analyst, Kuo, predicts that the iPhone 14 Pro models will be the only ones with the new A16 chip",
                                  "thumbnailUrl": "https://www.geo.tv/assets/uploads/updates/2022-03-14/404997_011045_updates.jpg",
                                  "uploadDate": "2022-03-14T19:45:00+05:00",
                                  "contentUrl": "https://players.brightcove.net/6100381078001/gYoGNloSW_default/index.html?videoId=6300632283001"
                                }
                             
 

the less expensive versions will have lpddr 4x featured in iphone 13. 
such differences are not new. previously, for example, iphone 13 pro featured more ram and gpu cores in its a15 chip than inside the a15 chip of iphone 13.
he adds that the iphone 14 max will have a pro-size display of 6.7 inches which would be the first time for a non-pro phone. kuo also claimed that all iphone 14 models will come with a ram of 6gb and upgraded lpddr5 memory. one such rumour is a notch-less iphone 14. soon, an iphone event is expected that will debut the latest lineup. he said that the base models, iphone 14 and 14 max, will continue to have the standard a15 chips.


China enforced a lockdown on over 18 million residents living in the Southern part of Shenzhen till at least March 20 on Sunday.
China pursued a zero-covid policy due to which multiple cities were locked down. The omicron variant, however, made it very difficult for the country to continue with this approach. 
On Sunday, China reported twice the number of new cases from the day before, the total reaching 3,400. This makes it the worst outbreak in two years.
Currently, the subways and trains in Shenzhen have stopped operating and the citizens have been instructed to limit their travel. 

china enforced a lockdown on over 18 million residents living in the southern part of shenzhen till at least march 20 on sunday. china pursued a zero-covid policy due to which multiple cities were locked down. on sunday, china reported twice the number of new cases from the day before, the total reaching 3,400. this makes it the worst outbreak in two years.


The instant messaging platform provided the users more privacy when sending messages in ephemeral chats and groups through the disappearing messages feature; however, some users faced difficulties while sending very important messages in the chat as their disappearing messages is enabled.
In such situations the only option users have is to temporarily disable disappearing messages, forward the message to the same chat, and enable disappearing messages again, but this procedure is enough cumbersome.
Therefore, keeping in view the difficulties, WhatsApp is developing a feature that allows keeping specific messages in the chat.
The platform revealed that if users have previously kept a disappearing message in the chat, they can decide to discard it later. “When you decide to keep the message, it won’t disappear from the chat after its expiration and the recipient can still see it, however, they can delete it later,” it reported.
According to reports, this feature seems to be in a very early stage of development so, as with any other feature that’s under development, its purpose may change before the release or the feature may also be discarded.

the instant messaging platform provided the users more privacy when sending messages in ephemeral chats and groups through the disappearing messages feature; however, some users faced difficulties while sending very important messages in the chat as their disappearing messages is enabled. therefore, keeping in view the difficulties, whatsapp is developing a feature that allows keeping specific messages in the chat. the platform revealed that if users have previously kept a disappearing message in the chat, they can decide to discard it later. in such situations the only option users have is to temporarily disable disappearing messages, forward the message to the same chat, and enable disappearing messages again, but this procedure is enough cumbersome.


Meta Platforms FB.O will allow Facebook and Instagram users in some countries to call for violence against Russians and Russian soldiers in the context of the Ukraine invasion, according to internal emails seen by Reuters on Thursday, in a temporary change to its hate speech policy.
The social media company is also temporarily allowing some posts that call for death to Russian President Vladimir Putin or Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, according to internal emails to its content moderators.
"As a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine we have temporarily made allowances for forms of political expression that would normally violate our rules like violent speech such as 'death to the Russian invaders.' We still won't allow credible calls for violence against Russian civilians," a Meta spokesperson said in a statement.
The calls for the leaders' deaths will be allowed unless they contain other targets or have two indicators of credibility, such as the location or method, one email said, in a recent change to the company's rules on violence and incitement.
Citing the Reuters story, Russia's embassy in the United States demanded that Washington stop the "extremist activities" of Meta. 
"Users of Facebook & Instagram did not give the owners of these platforms the right to determine the criteria of truth and pit nations against each other," the embassy said on Twitter in a message that was also shared by their India office.
The temporary policy changes on calls for violence to Russian soldiers apply to Armenia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, and Ukraine, according to one email.
In the email recently sent to moderators, Meta highlighted a change in its hate speech policy pertaining both to Russian soldiers and to Russians in the context of the invasion.
"We are issuing a spirit-of-the-policy allowance to allow T1 violent speech that would otherwise be removed under the Hate Speech policy when: (a) targeting Russian soldiers, EXCEPT prisoners of war, or (b) targeting Russians where it's clear that the context is the Russian invasion of Ukraine (e.g., content mentions the invasion, self-defense, etc.)," it said in the email.
"We are doing this because we have observed that in this specific context, 'Russian soldiers' is being used as a proxy for the Russian military. The Hate Speech policy continues to prohibit attacks on Russians," the email stated.
Last week, Russia said it was banning Facebook in the country in response to what it said were restrictions of access to Russian media on the platform. Moscow has cracked down on tech companies, including Twitter TWTR.N, which said it is restricted in the country, during its invasion of Ukraine, which it calls a "special operation."
Many major social media platforms have announced new content restrictions around the conflict, including blocking Russian state media RT and Sputnik in the European Union, and have demonstrated carve-outs in some of their policies during the war.
Emails also showed that Meta would allow praise of the right-wing Azov battalion, which is normally prohibited, in a change first reported by The Intercept.
The Meta spokesperson previously said the company was "for the time being, making a narrow exception for praise of the Azov Regiment strictly in the context of defending Ukraine, or in their role as part of the Ukraine National Guard."

meta platforms fb.o will allow facebook and instagram users in some countries to call for violence against russians and russian soldiers in the context of the ukraine invasion, according to internal emails seen by reuters on thursday, in a temporary change to its hate speech policy. in the email recently sent to moderators, meta highlighted a change in its hate speech policy pertaining both to russian soldiers and to russians in the context of the invasion. we still won't allow credible calls for violence against russian civilians," a meta spokesperson said in a statement. )," it said in the email. the hate speech policy continues to prohibit attacks on russians," the email stated. "we are issuing a spirit-of-the-policy allowance to allow t1 violent speech that would otherwise be removed under the hate speech policy when: (a) targeting russian soldiers, except prisoners of war, or (b) targeting russians where it's clear that the context is the russian invasion of ukraine (e.g., content mentions the invasion, self-defense, etc. the temporary policy changes on calls for violence to russian soldiers apply to armenia, azerbaijan, estonia, georgia, hungary, latvia, lithuania, poland, romania, russia, slovakia, and ukraine, according to one email. the social media company is also temporarily allowing some posts that call for death to russian president vladimir putin or belarusian president alexander lukashenko, according to internal emails to its content moderators. last week, russia said it was banning facebook in the country in response to what it said were restrictions of access to russian media on the platform. "as a result of the russian invasion of ukraine we have temporarily made allowances for forms of political expression that would normally violate our rules like violent speech such as 'death to the russian invaders.' emails also showed that meta would allow praise of the right-wing azov battalion, which is normally prohibited, in a change first reported by the intercept.


The purpose of 'Code Verify' is to check whether the code running on users’ WhatsApp web has not been tampered with.
Moreover, WhatsApp web will show you three different messages.

moreover, whatsapp web will show you three different messages. the purpose of 'code verify' is to check whether the code running on users’ whatsapp web has not been tampered with.


Gamers who spent around $60-$80 purchasing the controller had been disappointed by some troubles they had been facing with the gadget, such as the analogue sticks not working properly and causing drifts without the player’s intention or input. 
With the update, however, many issues have been fixed. The new range does not just have classy colours like Nova Pink, Galactic Purple, and Starlight Blue but is also engineered to avoid the drift issue. 
YouTuber TronicsFix compared the older and newer models sharing that the newer model had thicker springs. This change can make the device more durable. The modifications may also impact Sony and Nintendo positively considering they have lawsuits filed against them for hidden defects in their products.
iFixit, a veteran channel that has been analysing tech for a long time, claimed that PlayStation, Nintendo, and Xbox controllers have "a long history of predictable, preventable issues".

ifixit, a veteran channel that has been analysing tech for a long time, claimed that playstation, nintendo, and xbox controllers have "a long history of predictable, preventable issues". youtuber tronicsfix compared the older and newer models sharing that the newer model had thicker springs. with the update, however, many issues have been fixed. the modifications may also impact sony and nintendo positively considering they have lawsuits filed against them for hidden defects in their products. the new range does not just have classy colours like nova pink, galactic purple, and starlight blue but is also engineered to avoid the drift issue.


While announcing the launch of the new iPhone line-up, other updates were shared by Apple such as this one about Face ID.
Having to take off their masks multiple times during the pandemic, Face ID users have trouble unlocking their phones. But, the new update by Apple introduces a feature that focuses on the user’s eyes to identify them and unlock the phone. The update will be available for iPhone 12 and newer versions.
Several new features are being introduced apart from “Face ID with a mask”. Around 37 new emojis are also being added which includes a pregnant man. 
With this fresh line-up, Apple promises a healthier battery life and an even better camera.

several new features are being introduced apart from “face id with a mask”. while announcing the launch of the new iphone line-up, other updates were shared by apple such as this one about face id. but, the new update by apple introduces a feature that focuses on the user’s eyes to identify them and unlock the phone. the update will be available for iphone 12 and newer versions. having to take off their masks multiple times during the pandemic, face id users have trouble unlocking their phones.


 
Apple's low-cost 5G model should enhance the iPhone maker's appeal in Asia where it is in a stiff battle with multiple rivals from Samsung to Vivo, analysts believe.
After focusing on high-end phones during the pandemic-induced supply chain crisis, Apple this week unveiled 5G connectivity to its iPhone SE — for $429 — which is likely to attract more lower-end buyers in emerging markets. 
"The new 3rd gen iPhone SE could be effective in gaining incremental share among price sensitive consumers, especially in Asia," Cowen and Company brokerage said, citing China and India in particular.
'Demand to open up'
"This time we expect demand to open up more across other markets like Europe, SE (South East) Asia and Korea – regions where many consumers stayed away because of the lack of 5G support (for the older SE)," Counterpoint Research analyst Sujeong Lim said.
The world's most valuable company with a market capitalization around $2.6 trillion, Apple achieved its highest ever market share in China at the end of last year, surpassing Huawei to become the best seller, according to a previous Counterpoint. 
Cowen and Company analyst Krish Sankar said the new small-screen 5G phone's $30 price hike from the 4G version should cover most extra costs from the enhanced technology, though margins would be lower compared to the $699 iPhone 13 mini.
He estimated the iPhone SE would generate gross margin between 42%-54%, or roughly half the gross profit for each device compared with the iPhone 13 mini.
"We believe a renewed affordable iPhone SE lineup should buoy consumer interest in iPhones versus investor fears of sharp declines," Citi analyst Jim Suva said.

"the new 3rd gen iphone se could be effective in gaining incremental share among price sensitive consumers, especially in asia," cowen and company brokerage said, citing china and india in particular. he estimated the iphone se would generate gross margin between 42%-54%, or roughly half the gross profit for each device compared with the iphone 13 mini. "we believe a renewed affordable iphone se lineup should buoy consumer interest in iphones versus investor fears of sharp declines," citi analyst jim suva said. cowen and company analyst krish sankar said the new small-screen 5g phone's $30 price hike from the 4g version should cover most extra costs from the enhanced technology, though margins would be lower compared to the $699 iphone 13 mini. 'demand to open up'
"this time we expect demand to open up more across other markets like europe, se (south east) asia and korea – regions where many consumers stayed away because of the lack of 5g support (for the older se)," counterpoint research analyst sujeong lim said.


 
PARIS/BERLIN: Volkswagen unveiled a production version of its long-awaited ID. Buzz van in Paris on Wednesday — an electric reincarnation of its Microbus or Kombi — due to go on sale in a number of European countries in the third quarter of 2022.
The van will also launch in the United States in late 2023, the German automaker said in a statement, adding it is the first in a series of prototypes released in the past decade to successfully make it to production stage.
Made in Hanover with modules supplied mostly by Volkswagen Group Components in Germany, the vehicle runs on an 82 kWh lithium-ion battery and can reach a maximum speed of 90 miles an hour, Volkswagen said.
Other versions with batteries offering different power outputs will follow next year, the company said.

 
paris/berlin: volkswagen unveiled a production version of its long-awaited id. made in hanover with modules supplied mostly by volkswagen group components in germany, the vehicle runs on an 82 kwh lithium-ion battery and can reach a maximum speed of 90 miles an hour, volkswagen said. other versions with batteries offering different power outputs will follow next year, the company said.


Jigsaw Unit and Twitter joined hands to create this took for the safety of female journalists and public figures. 
The software has a filtering and reporting system to keep records of online harassment. 
The report further said that the tool, which will have an open-source code, will work with Twitter’s Application Programming Interface (API) to combine moderation steps like blocking and muting accounts or reporting comments. 
Jigsaw and Twitter worked with several journalists and human rights organisations. The tool can help victims of harassment identify and report harmful comments and messages. 
The Harassment Manager cannot be downloaded as it will require media outlets to integrate its code into other software that reporters can use to evaluate tweets, the report said.

the tool can help victims of harassment identify and report harmful comments and messages. jigsaw and twitter worked with several journalists and human rights organisations. the software has a filtering and reporting system to keep records of online harassment. the report further said that the tool, which will have an open-source code, will work with twitter’s application programming interface (api) to combine moderation steps like blocking and muting accounts or reporting comments.


After the 2017 mandate in the UK, companies with 250 or more employees are required to publicise the salaries of both genders. The software automatically accesses the British government data and then posts that information on their public Twitter account, which currently has 174.5k followers. 
It has become a trend for companies to use an empowering vocabulary on their social media and post about women’s equal rights and their empowerment. The founders of the bot — software developer Ali Fensome and copywriter Francesca Lawson — wondered whether wishing women on International Women’s Day and celebrating online was enough without taking practical steps towards women's empowerment. 
While Twitter accounts of these companies show posts where women are smiling and are seemingly happy with their “empowerment”, the bot has revealed that the majority of the companies have a stark pay gap.
Per the publication, the bot is not biased and ensures accuracy. It tweeted, for instance, about Abbeycroft Leisure: “In this organisation, men's and women's median hourly pay is equal.” 
The software is objective and does not differentiate between profit and non-profit companies. 
As a result, some companies ended up deleting their posts. Lawson commented over e-mail and said: "I think it's pretty cowardly to delete the tweet after being called out — it gives off the impression that … they'd rather pretend it doesn't exist than … do something about it."

while twitter accounts of these companies show posts where women are smiling and are seemingly happy with their “empowerment”, the bot has revealed that the majority of the companies have a stark pay gap. as a result, some companies ended up deleting their posts. the founders of the bot — software developer ali fensome and copywriter francesca lawson — wondered whether wishing women on international women’s day and celebrating online was enough without taking practical steps towards women's empowerment. it has become a trend for companies to use an empowering vocabulary on their social media and post about women’s equal rights and their empowerment. it tweeted, for instance, about abbeycroft leisure: “in this organisation, men's and women's median hourly pay is equal.” 
the software is objective and does not differentiate between profit and non-profit companies. the software automatically accesses the british government data and then posts that information on their public twitter account, which currently has 174.5k followers.


Instagram has always been focused on developing features that make many other apps unimportant. Photoediting options and IG reels are examples of such tools. This step is similar to what Facebook has done before by integrating multiple features into one app like its own payment system and virtual shopping mall.
Even though Hyperlapse was only available on iOS, it crossed 23 million downloads. Surprisingly, despite Instagram having all the features, the Boomerang app was downloaded by more than 26,000 people.

surprisingly, despite instagram having all the features, the boomerang app was downloaded by more than 26,000 people. instagram has always been focused on developing features that make many other apps unimportant. this step is similar to what facebook has done before by integrating multiple features into one app like its own payment system and virtual shopping mall.


Other android competitors have better charging speeds than iPhone and the world's most famous smartphone maker is now mulling to address these issues. 
Oppo, for example, launched a new technology called 150W SuperVooc, which can charge phones up to 50% in just five minutes. The device may be recharged to a full 100% within 15 minutes.
This is because iPhone 13 models were made 0.25mm thicker, it added.
Battery size being crucial to its efficiency, this new size and a different model can allow the new iPhone’s battery to be better than its predecessors.

battery size being crucial to its efficiency, this new size and a different model can allow the new iphone’s battery to be better than its predecessors. this is because iphone 13 models were made 0.25mm thicker, it added. oppo, for example, launched a new technology called 150w supervooc, which can charge phones up to 50% in just five minutes.


This year, Google released an animated video that depicts women in different roles and professions with cultural diversity as a theme.
"Today’s annual International Women’s Day Doodle is an animated slideshow that transports us around the world to give a glimpse into the everyday lives of women across different cultures," Google says.
"From a mother working from home to a motorcycle mechanic teaching her skills to the next generation, each illustration depicted in today’s Doodle is connected by the common thread of how women show up for themselves, their families, and their communities."
As users click the play button, the animation opens with an illustration of the earth surrounded by culturally diverse women. 
The first animation represents a working mother who is looking at her laptop with a baby in her arms and a child lying beside her on the sofa.
The second animation is a scene of an operation theatre where a female surgeon and paramedic assist a male doctor in the ongoing surgery.
The next animation represents a granny watering her plants in the garden while her little ones play on the swings in the background.
Multiple other animations that follow in the video show women acing different professions such as artisan, fashion designer, mechanic and a wildlife photographer.

this year, google released an animated video that depicts women in different roles and professions with cultural diversity as a theme. multiple other animations that follow in the video show women acing different professions such as artisan, fashion designer, mechanic and a wildlife photographer. "today’s annual international women’s day doodle is an animated slideshow that transports us around the world to give a glimpse into the everyday lives of women across different cultures," google says. as users click the play button, the animation opens with an illustration of the earth surrounded by culturally diverse women. "from a mother working from home to a motorcycle mechanic teaching her skills to the next generation, each illustration depicted in today’s doodle is connected by the common thread of how women show up for themselves, their families, and their communities."


Per the report, one of the new features will allow users to be able to react to messages, just like they do on Facebook and Instagram. That aside, users will be able to group all communities together in the community tab.
Reaction to messages 
WhatsApp is already set to introduce a feature that will allow users to react to messages quickly and view reactions to their messages in its. The feature has been developed but the company is yet to roll it out to users.
The messaging platform has introduced another way for users to react to messages, which includes pressing the message until the message menu appears. A menu will pop up, showing different options, including “react to message."
Community tab
As seen in WhatsApp beta for Android 2.22.6.9, the camera tab will be replaced by a community tab. 
When users click on the community tab, they will be able to see all the communities they are a part of. 
With the future update, users can ask for their friends' opinions through polling within a WhatsApp group chat. 

that aside, users will be able to group all communities together in the community tab. community tab
as seen in whatsapp beta for android 2.22.6.9, the camera tab will be replaced by a community tab. reaction to messages 
whatsapp is already set to introduce a feature that will allow users to react to messages quickly and view reactions to their messages in its. the messaging platform has introduced another way for users to react to messages, which includes pressing the message until the message menu appears. when users click on the community tab, they will be able to see all the communities they are a part of. a menu will pop up, showing different options, including “react to message."


MILAN: Italian truck, bus and engine maker Iveco group said on Monday it had signed a preliminary deal with South Korea's Hyundai Motor Company to explore collaboration on shared vehicle technology, joint sourcing and mutual supply.
The two companies singed a memorandum of understanding (MoU), which marks a preliminary step in assessing potential cooperations in technology and platforms, encompassing components and systems, Iveco saidin a statement.
"The areas of possible mutual interest are electric powertrains and platforms such as fuel-cell systems, vehicle automation and connectivity for commercial vehicles," the company said without providing details.
Analysts have often seen Iveco as a potential M&A target, given its smaller size compared to European rivals like Volkswagen's Traton, Daimler Truck or Volvo Group.
The agreement with Hyundai is in line with the two group's "independent strategies", Iveco said.
A potential cooperation with Hyundai will not affect Iveco's partnership with US company Nikola on electric and hydrogen heavy trucks, a spokesman for the Italian company said.

the agreement with hyundai is in line with the two group's "independent strategies", iveco said. a potential cooperation with hyundai will not affect iveco's partnership with us company nikola on electric and hydrogen heavy trucks, a spokesman for the italian company said. milan: italian truck, bus and engine maker iveco group said on monday it had signed a preliminary deal with south korea's hyundai motor company to explore collaboration on shared vehicle technology, joint sourcing and mutual supply. "the areas of possible mutual interest are electric powertrains and platforms such as fuel-cell systems, vehicle automation and connectivity for commercial vehicles," the company said without providing details.


The joint effort is a new interoperability benchmark, called Interop 2022, which aims to reduce disruptions caused by the inconsistencies and differences between different browsers.
Deriving some of the focus points from Compat 2021, a similar effort by Google announced in late 2021, Interop 2022 has 15 areas of focus including scrolling, cascade layers, and colour spaces. Aimed at building a more reliable platform for developers, it can make web platforms more usable.
In a world where Google primarily leads the desktop browser market, Interop 2022 might bring surprising changes in the web world.

in a world where google primarily leads the desktop browser market, interop 2022 might bring surprising changes in the web world. deriving some of the focus points from compat 2021, a similar effort by google announced in late 2021, interop 2022 has 15 areas of focus including scrolling, cascade layers, and colour spaces. the joint effort is a new interoperability benchmark, called interop 2022, which aims to reduce disruptions caused by the inconsistencies and differences between different browsers.


With the future update, the users can ask for their friends' opinions through polling within a WhatsApp group chat. 
A group member can ask a question by typing in the bar shown in the screenshot given below. 
However, there aren't any more details about the feature for now since the feature is still under development. 
According to the WhatsApp news tracker, the feature is designed solely for group chats and the answers collected through voting will be end-to-end encrypted like other WhatsApp chats. 
This means that only the group members will be able to view the polls and their results.

according to the whatsapp news tracker, the feature is designed solely for group chats and the answers collected through voting will be end-to-end encrypted like other whatsapp chats. with the future update, the users can ask for their friends' opinions through polling within a whatsapp group chat. however, there aren't any more details about the feature for now since the feature is still under development.


NEW YORK: Card payment giants Visa and Mastercard Saturday announced to suspend their operations in Russia over its invasion of Ukraine.   
US President Joe Biden "welcomed the decision" during a phone call with his Ukrainian counterpart Volodymyr Zelensky in which the two discussed US, ally and private industry actions to deter Russia from aggression, according to a White House readout.
Major corporations across a range of industries have halted business in Russia since its invasion began on February 24, including everything from US-based tech firms such as Intel and Airbnb to French luxury giants LVMH, Hermes and Chanel.
Visa and Mastercard had already announced that they were complying with US and international sanctions imposed on Russia in the wake of its attack.
"Our colleagues, our customers and our partners have been affected in ways that most of us could not imagine," Mastercard said, stating that its cards issued by Russian banks would no longer be supported by the company's network.
Visa similarly said that cards issued in Russia would no longer work outside the country.
Both companies said cards issued abroad would no longer work in Russia.
- Russian banks downplay effects -
"We are compelled to act following Russia's unprovoked invasion of Ukraine, and the unacceptable events that we have witnessed," Visa CEO Al Kelly said.
Russia's major banks, including its largest lender Sberbank and the Russia Central Bank, downplayed the effects that the cards' suspensions would have on their clients.
"All Visa and Mastercard bank cards issued by Russian banks will continue to operate normally on Russian territory until their expiration date," the Russia Central Bank said.
Sberbank said in a statement on its official Telegram account that the cards "can be used for operations in the Russian territory -- to withdraw cash, make transfers using the card number, and for payment at offline as well as at online Russian stores."
The cards would continue to work on Russian territory, it said, because all payments in Russia are made through a national system and do not depend on foreign systems.
However, the central bank warned that Russians traveling abroad should carry alternate means of payment.
Mastercard added that it would continue to provide pay and benefits to its nearly 200 employees in Russia.
Visa's and Mastercard's announcements came hours after PayPal also halted its services in Russia.
Ukrainian deputy prime minister Mykhailo Fedorov tweeted a letter early Saturday from PayPal CEO Dan Schulman officially announcing the stop.
"Under the current circumstances, we are suspending PayPal services in Russia," Schulman said in the letter.
He added that PayPal would continue to support its staff in the region and would focus on "enabling our customers and our global employee community to support" humanitarian efforts in Ukraine.

both companies said cards issued abroad would no longer work in russia. visa similarly said that cards issued in russia would no longer work outside the country. "all visa and mastercard bank cards issued by russian banks will continue to operate normally on russian territory until their expiration date," the russia central bank said. new york: card payment giants visa and mastercard saturday announced to suspend their operations in russia over its invasion of ukraine. visa's and mastercard's announcements came hours after paypal also halted its services in russia. russia's major banks, including its largest lender sberbank and the russia central bank, downplayed the effects that the cards' suspensions would have on their clients. "under the current circumstances, we are suspending paypal services in russia," schulman said in the letter. the cards would continue to work on russian territory, it said, because all payments in russia are made through a national system and do not depend on foreign systems. mastercard added that it would continue to provide pay and benefits to its nearly 200 employees in russia. - russian banks downplay effects -
"we are compelled to act following russia's unprovoked invasion of ukraine, and the unacceptable events that we have witnessed," visa ceo al kelly said. "our colleagues, our customers and our partners have been affected in ways that most of us could not imagine," mastercard said, stating that its cards issued by russian banks would no longer be supported by the company's network.


The “affordable” iPhone will be the third variant of the “Special Edition” (SE) lineup, which is Apple’s cheapest lineup. The first-generation model was launched back in 2016, followed by a second-generation variant in 2020 and now the tech giant is expected to unveil the iPhone SE 3 in the days to come.
According to the publication, if the company does announce the affordable iPhone on Tuesday as per speculations, the phone would be available for pre-booking on Friday (March 11).

the “affordable” iphone will be the third variant of the “special edition” (se) lineup, which is apple’s cheapest lineup. the first-generation model was launched back in 2016, followed by a second-generation variant in 2020 and now the tech giant is expected to unveil the iphone se 3 in the days to come.


However, the publication is not sure whether the new model — which is being called “Mac Studio” — would be unveiled during Tuesday’s event.
Rumours suggest that “Mac Studio” will somewhat be similar to the longstanding Mac mini; however, it would have a more powerful hardware.
Sources also report that the new lineup is expected to have two versions of the Mac Studio. However, it is still unclear whether the tech giant will unveil “Mac Studio” on Tuesday or save it for June.

rumours suggest that “mac studio” will somewhat be similar to the longstanding mac mini; however, it would have a more powerful hardware. however, the publication is not sure whether the new model — which is being called “mac studio” — would be unveiled during tuesday’s event. however, it is still unclear whether the tech giant will unveil “mac studio” on tuesday or save it for june.


SAN FRANCISCO: SpaceX chief Elon Musk warned there was a high chance the company's Starlink satellite broadband service could be "targeted" in Ukraine, which has been hit by the Russian invasion.
The warning came days after an internet security researcher warned that devices used for satellite communications could become "beacons" that Russia could target for airstrikes.
"Important warning: Starlink is the only non-Russian communications system still working in some parts of Ukraine, so probability of being targeted is high. Please use with caution," Musk tweeted.
He asked users to "turn on Starlink only when needed and place antenna away as far away from people as possible" and "place light camouflage over antenna to avoid visual detection."
On Saturday, Musk said Starlink was activated in Ukraine and SpaceX was sending more terminals to the country, responding to a tweet by a Ukraine government official who asked Musk to provide the embattled country with Starlink stations.
On Monday, Ukraine said it had received donated Starlink satellite internet terminals, but an internet security researcher warned these could become Russian targets. 
"...if #Putin controls the air above #Ukraine, users' uplink transmissions become beacons ... for airstrikes," John Scott-Railton, a senior researcher at the University of Toronto's Citizen Lab project, tweeted.
"#Russia has decades of experience hitting people by targeting their satellite communications," he added in a series of 15 tweets detailing the risks. 
Ukraine Vice Prime Minister Mykhailo Fedorov thanked Starlink for "keeping our cities connected and emergency services saving lives!" But he said the country needs generators to keep Starlink service online due to Russian attacks on infrastructure.
In response, Musk said SpaceX was updating software to reduce peak power consumption, so Starlink can be powered from car cigarette lighters.
"Mobile roaming enabled, so phased array antenna can maintain signal while on moving vehicle," he said.
Tim Farrar, a consultant in satellite communications, said Starlink antennas, which look like home satellite television dishes, are not designed to be used while in motion, and it was not clear what Musk meant by the tweet.
Russia and Ukraine have agreed on the need to set up humanitarian corridors and a possible ceasefire around them for fleeing civilians, both sides said after talks on Thursday, in their first sign of progress on any issue since the invasion, which Moscow calls a "special operation." 

on monday, ukraine said it had received donated starlink satellite internet terminals, but an internet security researcher warned these could become russian targets. the warning came days after an internet security researcher warned that devices used for satellite communications could become "beacons" that russia could target for airstrikes. on saturday, musk said starlink was activated in ukraine and spacex was sending more terminals to the country, responding to a tweet by a ukraine government official who asked musk to provide the embattled country with starlink stations. san francisco: spacex chief elon musk warned there was a high chance the company's starlink satellite broadband service could be "targeted" in ukraine, which has been hit by the russian invasion. please use with caution," musk tweeted. but he said the country needs generators to keep starlink service online due to russian attacks on infrastructure. "important warning: starlink is the only non-russian communications system still working in some parts of ukraine, so probability of being targeted is high. tim farrar, a consultant in satellite communications, said starlink antennas, which look like home satellite television dishes, are not designed to be used while in motion, and it was not clear what musk meant by the tweet. in response, musk said spacex was updating software to reduce peak power consumption, so starlink can be powered from car cigarette lighters.


Massachusetts Attorney General Maura Healey said on Wednesday several states have launched a bipartisan, nationwide probe of TikTok, focusing on whether the popular video-sharing app causes physical or mental health harm to young people.
The probe will also look at what the company knew about its role in perpetuating those harms.
"The investigation focuses, among other things, on the methods and techniques utilized by TikTok to boost young user engagement, including increasing the duration of time spent on the platform and frequency of engagement with the platform," Healey's office said in a statement.
The investigation is being led by a bipartisan coalition of attorneys general from California, Florida, Kentucky, Massachusetts, Nebraska, New Jersey, Tennessee, and Vermont and are joined by others, according to a statement from the Tennessee attorney general's office.

the investigation is being led by a bipartisan coalition of attorneys general from california, florida, kentucky, massachusetts, nebraska, new jersey, tennessee, and vermont and are joined by others, according to a statement from the tennessee attorney general's office. massachusetts attorney general maura healey said on wednesday several states have launched a bipartisan, nationwide probe of tiktok, focusing on whether the popular video-sharing app causes physical or mental health harm to young people. "the investigation focuses, among other things, on the methods and techniques utilized by tiktok to boost young user engagement, including increasing the duration of time spent on the platform and frequency of engagement with the platform," healey's office said in a statement.


This, however, is nothing very important, but it shows that the company is keeping small details in view before finally releasing the feature.
The WhatsApp news tracker elaborated how the new feature would work through a video but we will show this to you through the screengrabs taken from it.
As you can see, a tab with multiple reaction options pops up when a message within the WhatsApp chat is selected. When the users will tap any of these options, the reaction will be sent in the form of an animation.
The feature is under development for WhatsApp Beta on both Android and iOS and WhatsApp web version.

the feature is under development for whatsapp beta on both android and ios and whatsapp web version. as you can see, a tab with multiple reaction options pops up when a message within the whatsapp chat is selected. the whatsapp news tracker elaborated how the new feature would work through a video but we will show this to you through the screengrabs taken from it.


As per the publication, Satya and Anu Nadella's son Zain Nadella was born with cerebral palsy.
The American technology company sought prayers for the aggrieved Nadella family from its executives and space to mourn the loss privately.
Fifty-four-year-old Nadella, since taking over as the CEO, has led Microsoft towards designing products to assist disabled persons in a better way, citing lessons he learned while bringing Zain up.
The Children’s Hospital where Zain was treated most of the time, joined the Nadella family in 2021 to set up Zain Nadella Endowed Chair in Pediatric Neurosciences under Seattle Children’s Center for Integrative Brain Research.
Children's Hospital CEO Jeff Sperring wrote in a condolence message:
“Zain will be remembered for his eclectic taste in music, his bright sunny smile and the immense joy he brought to his family and all those who loved him."

as per the publication, satya and anu nadella's son zain nadella was born with cerebral palsy. the children’s hospital where zain was treated most of the time, joined the nadella family in 2021 to set up zain nadella endowed chair in pediatric neurosciences under seattle children’s center for integrative brain research. the american technology company sought prayers for the aggrieved nadella family from its executives and space to mourn the loss privately.


Zoom Video Communications Inc (ZM.O) forecast full-year revenue and profit below Wall Street estimates on Monday, signaling a hit from tough competition and lower sign ups for its core Meetings platform.
The video conferencing platform, which derives a large portion of its revenue from smaller organizations, has been hit by slowing growth as schools and workplaces reopen, as well as competition from Cisco's (CSCO.O) conferencing tool Webex, Microsoft's (MSFT.O) Teams and Salesforce's (CRM.N) Slack.
However, Zoom said it would continue to focus on expanding internationally to boost growth.
"The one silver lining from the guidance is there is some implied acceleration in the second half of the fiscal 2023, which suggests that growth rates will trough before reaccelerating," said RBC Capital Markets analyst Rishi Jaluria.
"The outlook isn't as bad as it looks, especially given how beaten down the stock is."
Shares of Zoom, which have fallen more than 30% this year, rose 4.4% to $130.99 in extended trading as the company's board authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $1 billion.
Zoom beat estimates for fourth-quarter sales and profit, as revenue from enterprise customers grew by 38%.
The company forecast annual adjusted profit of between $3.45 and $3.51 per share, compared with estimates of $4.41 per share, according to IBES data from Refinitiv.
It also expects full-year revenue to be in the range of $4.53 billion to $4.55 billion, below expectations of $4.71 billion.
Revenue in the fourth quarter rose 21% to $1.07 billion, the company's slowest-ever growth since it went public in 2019. Analysts on average expected $1.05 billion.
Excluding items, the company earned $1.29 per share, beating estimates of $1.06 per share.

excluding items, the company earned $1.29 per share, beating estimates of $1.06 per share. the company forecast annual adjusted profit of between $3.45 and $3.51 per share, compared with estimates of $4.41 per share, according to ibes data from refinitiv. revenue in the fourth quarter rose 21% to $1.07 billion, the company's slowest-ever growth since it went public in 2019. analysts on average expected $1.05 billion. zoom beat estimates for fourth-quarter sales and profit, as revenue from enterprise customers grew by 38%. it also expects full-year revenue to be in the range of $4.53 billion to $4.55 billion, below expectations of $4.71 billion. zoom video communications inc (zm.o) forecast full-year revenue and profit below wall street estimates on monday, signaling a hit from tough competition and lower sign ups for its core meetings platform. however, zoom said it would continue to focus on expanding internationally to boost growth.


According to the WhatsApp news tracker, the company is testing a feature through which users can generate and send links to invite their friends to join a group call even if it has already started.
As we know, WhatsApp is always working to roll out improvements in the application. It is aiming to make a user's experience even better with a future update.
However, the new feature would be different from the one for joining the Messenger Rooms on Facebook because not everyone can join it.
When a WhatsApp call link is created, the call is hosted on WhatsApp so only those who have an account on the platform can join it, unlike the Messenger Rooms' shortcut which can be joined by even non-account holders.
WhatsApp calls are always end-to-end encrypted so the new way to call will also be the same.
The feature is currently under development and its release will be reported as soon as WhatsApp rolls it out.

when a whatsapp call link is created, the call is hosted on whatsapp so only those who have an account on the platform can join it, unlike the messenger rooms' shortcut which can be joined by even non-account holders. whatsapp calls are always end-to-end encrypted so the new way to call will also be the same. however, the new feature would be different from the one for joining the messenger rooms on facebook because not everyone can join it. according to the whatsapp news tracker, the company is testing a feature through which users can generate and send links to invite their friends to join a group call even if it has already started. as we know, whatsapp is always working to roll out improvements in the application.


MEXICO CITY: Five tiny robots designed and made in Mexico will blast off for the moon later this year, part of a first-of-its-kind scientific mission that envisions the two-wheeled bots scrambling across the lunar surface while taking sophisticated measurements.
The so-called nano robots developed by researchers at Mexico’s National Autonomous University (UNAM) will work together like a swarm of bees, the senior scientist told Reuters, once they make the nearly 240,000 mile (386,000 km) trip from earth aboard a rocket from closely held U.S. firm Astrobotic Technology.
The mission is poised to launch on a United Launch Alliance Vulcan rocket and would be the first American spacecraft to land on the moon in nearly 50 years.
“This is a small mission where we’ll test the concept, and afterwards we’ll undertake other missions, first to the moon and then on to asteroids,” said Gustavo Medina Tanco, a UNAM scientist who heads the Colmena project, which means “beehive” in Spanish.
Medina Tanco explained that the bots, made of stainless steel, titanium alloys and space-grade aluminum, are equipped to gather lunar minerals that could be useful in future space mining.
On a recent tour of UNAM’s space instruments lab, Colmena team members tested a launch device for the wafer-thin almost 5-inch-diameter (12 cm) disk-shaped robots, which are designed to communicate with one another as well as with an earth-based command center.
The bots are scheduled to launch in June on Astrobotic’s Peregrine lander, originally developed for Google’s Lunar-X-Prize.
During their month-long mission, the nano robots will take first-ever lunar plasma temperature, electromagnetic and regolith particle size measurements, according to an UNAM article on the project published earlier this month.
Medina Tanco expressed pride about the upcoming mission, that also included contributions from some 200 engineering, physics, math and chemistry students.
“No one has done this, nobody, not just in Mexico,” he said.
“We can make a difference in the technology and for international cooperation that can then lead to important joint ventures to study the minerals or undertake other scientific exploration.”

mexico city: five tiny robots designed and made in mexico will blast off for the moon later this year, part of a first-of-its-kind scientific mission that envisions the two-wheeled bots scrambling across the lunar surface while taking sophisticated measurements. the mission is poised to launch on a united launch alliance vulcan rocket and would be the first american spacecraft to land on the moon in nearly 50 years. during their month-long mission, the nano robots will take first-ever lunar plasma temperature, electromagnetic and regolith particle size measurements, according to an unam article on the project published earlier this month. “this is a small mission where we’ll test the concept, and afterwards we’ll undertake other missions, first to the moon and then on to asteroids,” said gustavo medina tanco, a unam scientist who heads the colmena project, which means “beehive” in spanish. medina tanco explained that the bots, made of stainless steel, titanium alloys and space-grade aluminum, are equipped to gather lunar minerals that could be useful in future space mining. “no one has done this, nobody, not just in mexico,” he said. the bots are scheduled to launch in june on astrobotic’s peregrine lander, originally developed for google’s lunar-x-prize.


Popular social platform WhatsApp has rolled out another useful shortcut to further improve its users' experience using its application, WABetainfo reported.
The new shortcut is a "search message" option, which is being made a part of the redesigned contact info interface the company launched last year.
As you can see in this screenshot provided by WABetainfo, another option has been added to the message, call, and video call options already present in the contact info section.
There are still only three options visible, but the fourth option can be viewed by tapping on the +1 icon.
"Unfortunately, the search shortcut doesn’t seem working so well," the WhatsApp news tracker said, citing the reason that even if the feature has been correctly enabled on the versions you are using, it may not appear in certain situations.
However, it added that the issue would get fixed with future updates in the version. Moreover, since the feature has been made available to certain beta testers, the latest beta version must be updated to test the feature.

moreover, since the feature has been made available to certain beta testers, the latest beta version must be updated to test the feature. as you can see in this screenshot provided by wabetainfo, another option has been added to the message, call, and video call options already present in the contact info section. the new shortcut is a "search message" option, which is being made a part of the redesigned contact info interface the company launched last year. popular social platform whatsapp has rolled out another useful shortcut to further improve its users' experience using its application, wabetainfo reported. "unfortunately, the search shortcut doesn’t seem working so well," the whatsapp news tracker said, citing the reason that even if the feature has been correctly enabled on the versions you are using, it may not appear in certain situations.


Russia launched its invasion by land, air and sea on Thursday following a declaration of war by President Vladimir Putin. An estimated 100,000 people fled as explosions and gunfire rocked major cities. Dozens have been reported killed.
Taking to Twitter, Clegg said that the concerned teams at Meta have implemented various measures to keep all of its users in the Russian-Ukrainian region safe from any type of violent content, motivated by the recent events or otherwise as a lot of information regarding the crisis is being shared through social media.
"We’ve established a Special Operations Center, staffed by experts and native speakers, to respond in real-time to remove hate speech or content that incites violence or otherwise breaks our rules, from the Meta-owned platforms," a statement issued by the Meta official read.
Clegg said that the Meta is taking extensive steps to fight the spread of misinformation and label content disseminated by the state-controlled media and what the fact-checkers have rated false.
He further stated that any possible attempts on abusing the affiliated platforms are being closely monitored by Meta's cybersecurity teams.
"The situation in Ukraine is devastating. Our teams at Meta have implemented a number of measures to keep our platforms and our users in the region as safe as we can. This is a fast moving situation and our teams remain on high alert", Cleg wrote on Twitter.

our teams at meta have implemented a number of measures to keep our platforms and our users in the region as safe as we can. taking to twitter, clegg said that the concerned teams at meta have implemented various measures to keep all of its users in the russian-ukrainian region safe from any type of violent content, motivated by the recent events or otherwise as a lot of information regarding the crisis is being shared through social media. he further stated that any possible attempts on abusing the affiliated platforms are being closely monitored by meta's cybersecurity teams. clegg said that the meta is taking extensive steps to fight the spread of misinformation and label content disseminated by the state-controlled media and what the fact-checkers have rated false. this is a fast moving situation and our teams remain on high alert", cleg wrote on twitter. "the situation in ukraine is devastating.






















