Players from Afghanistan's national women's football team competed in a local league match in Australia on Sunday for the first time since fleeing the Taliban.
The result was a scoreless draw after an Afghan goal was disallowed for being offside in a lower league amateur match in the eastern state of Victoria.
But for the Afghan women it was a powerful, symbolic victory as they returned to the pitch together after leaving their homeland to rebuild their lives in Australia.
The game showed that the Taliban could not stop the players, said team captain Nilab, who like her teammates did not give a family name so as to protect relatives living in Afghanistan.
“We fled the country but we are still thinking of our country and we are still working for our victory for our country.”
Australia helped dozens of Afghan national women's team players and their relatives to escape when the Taliban swept back to power eight months ago.
As players fled to different countries, the women's national team was fragmented.
'Together and powerful'
But many settled in and around Melbourne, capital of the eastern state of Victoria, where professional A-League Women's side Melbourne Victory helped them to return to the field.
Goalkeeper Fatima said people who had seen social media images of Afghanistan after the Taliban's return could understand something of the courage required by players to leave their homes.
“Today, we are playing as a team and together and powerful. It's incredible.”
Team coach Jeff Hopkins praised their performance against amateur Melbourne side ETA Buffalo SC — a club established in 1982 by friends who had migrated from East Timor — in the Football Victoria State League 4 West competition.
“That obviously wasn't happening for them in Afghanistan — they were being persecuted for it,” he said.
A few days ahead of Sunday's match, Melbourne Victory presented the Afghan Women's Team with their new predominantly red kit, complete with shirts showing off the Afghan national flag.
The shirts are marked with numbers but no names for the safety of players' families in Afghanistan.

But for the Afghan women it was a powerful, symbolic victory as they returned to the pitch together after leaving their homeland to rebuild their lives in Australia.The game showed that the Taliban could not stop the players, said team captain Nilab, who like her teammates did not give a family name so as to protect relatives living in Afghanistan.“We fled the country but we are still thinking of our country and we are still working for our victory for our country.”
Australia helped dozens of Afghan national women's team players and their relatives to escape when the Taliban swept back to power eight months ago.As players fled to different countries, the women's national team was fragmented.“Today, we are playing as a team and together and powerful.It's incredible.”
Team coach Jeff Hopkins praised their performance against amateur Melbourne side ETA Buffalo SC — a club established in 1982 by friends who had migrated from East Timor — in the Football Victoria State League 4 West competition.“That obviously wasn't happening for them in Afghanistan — they were being persecuted for it,” he said.The shirts are marked with numbers but no names for the safety of players' families in Afghanistan.


ISLAMABAD: Minister for Inter-provincial Coordination Ehsan-ur-Rehman Mazari on Saturday held a meeting with officials of the IPC Ministry wherein he was briefed about the operations and mandate of the ministry.
It was Mazari’s first official meeting with the officials of the ministry since taking oath as the federal minister. The IPC secretary briefed him about the roles of various sections and wings of IPC and details about various programmes going on under the ministry.
The IPC secretary on the occasion also briefed the minister on the major achievements of the ministry and its role for conducting the 2023 South Asian Games — to be hosted by Pakistan — and solving the FIFA membership crisis.
The minister was given a presentation about the functions, budget and role of the Pakistan Sports Board (PSB) in promoting sports.
PSB director general retired Col Asif Zaman during the meeting gave an overview of various schemes of the board. Salient features of the new National Sports Policy also came under discussion. It was informed that establishment of a sports university was also on the agenda of the IPC ministry. The minister was also told that the cash reward policy for athletes is also under review.
Speaking on the occasion, Mazari stressed expediting the work on various schemes and directed separate meetings on important issues.
“Sports and tourism are integral for promoting the soft image of Pakistan. We will have to utilise whatever resources we have to enhance the soft image of the country,” he remarked.
Published in Dawn, April 24th, 2022

ISLAMABAD: Minister for Inter-provincial Coordination Ehsan-ur-Rehman Mazari on Saturday held a meeting with officials of the IPC Ministry wherein he was briefed about the operations and mandate of the ministry.The IPC secretary briefed him about the roles of various sections and wings of IPC and details about various programmes going on under the ministry.The minister was given a presentation about the functions, budget and role of the Pakistan Sports Board (PSB) in promoting sports.It was informed that establishment of a sports university was also on the agenda of the IPC ministry.The minister was also told that the cash reward policy for athletes is also under review.“Sports and tourism are integral for promoting the soft image of Pakistan.We will have to utilise whatever resources we have to enhance the soft image of the country,” he remarked.Published in Dawn, April 24th, 2022


IMOLA: World champion Max Verstappen recovered from a poor start to fight back and win Saturday’s 21-lap sprint race and claim pole position for Sunday’s Emilia Romagna Grand Prix.
Beaten as the lights went out by championship leader Charles Leclerc of Ferrari, who pulled clear, the 24-year-old Dutchman showed his tenacity and pace to regain the lead with two laps remaining in his Red Bull.
Leclerc, struggling with tyre wear, came home second ahead of Sergio Perez in the other Red Bull, Carlos Sainz in the second Ferrari and Lando Norris of McLaren.
Daniel Ricciardo finished sixth in the second McLaren ahead of Valtteri Bottas of Alfa Romeo, and Kevin Magnussen who was eighth, the final points-scoring position, for Haas.
“I had a very bad start with too much wheel spin,” said Verstappen. “I had to stay calm. Charles had more pace, but he ran out of tyres. It may be different tomorrow, but today it worked out ok and I was happy to have a clean race.”
Leclerc was philosophical.
“It’s still a front row start,” he said.  “I struggled with the tyres, with graining on the front left so we have to work to come back stronger tomorrow. The support here for Ferrari is amazing.”
Mercedes struggled again despite an improved showing in second practice.
On a difficult track for overtaking, George Russell came in 11th and seven-time world champion Lewis Hamilton 14th, positions once seemed unimaginable for the multi-championship winning team.
On a bright, dry afternoon, Leclerc made an excellent start and swept past pole-sitter Verstappen to lead into Tamburello with Norris third ahead of Magnussen, on medium tyres, and Perez.
Behind the front-runners, Zhou Guanyu tried to pass Pierre Gasly’s AlphaTauri on the outside of Piratella, but made contact and spun off into a wall.
His Alfa Romeo was badly damaged, but he was unhurt while Gasly suffered a puncture.
This collision prompted a Safety Car intervention while the debris was cleared. After four laps, the racing resumed with Magnussen given a black-and-white warning flag for weaving in front of Perez on the straight.
To the delight of the ‘tifosi’ crowded around the circuit, Leclerc drove with text-book perfection to remain clear of Verstappen while the two Mercedes, much-improved in the earlier second practice session, struggled to advance.
By lap 11, Leclerc led by 1.4 seconds with Perez charging through to third, six seconds adrift, Norris fourth and a charging Ricciardo up to fifth ahead of Sainz, also on a charge for Ferrari, and Magnussen.
Sainz soon passed Ricciardo for fifth, making use of his Drag Reduction System (DRS) at Tamburello, while up front Verstappen closed up on Leclerc, who was struggling with graining of his front right tyre.
With four laps remaining, the Ferrari led by seven-tenths, but had to repel the Red Bull’s attacks under braking at Tamburello for the next two laps before Verstappen went round the outside to take the lead.
Sainz, who had a miserable weekend in Melbourne and a crash in Friday practice, demonstrated his bold recovery powers by taking Norris for fourth after starting from 10th on the grid.
Published in Dawn, April 24th, 2022

Beaten as the lights went out by championship leader Charles Leclerc of Ferrari, who pulled clear, the 24-year-old Dutchman showed his tenacity and pace to regain the lead with two laps remaining in his Red Bull.“I had a very bad start with too much wheel spin,” said Verstappen.“I had to stay calm.Charles had more pace, but he ran out of tyres.It may be different tomorrow, but today it worked out ok and I was happy to have a clean race.”
Leclerc was philosophical.“It’s still a front row start,” he said.“I struggled with the tyres, with graining on the front left so we have to work to come back stronger tomorrow.The support here for Ferrari is amazing.”
Mercedes struggled again despite an improved showing in second practice.On a bright, dry afternoon, Leclerc made an excellent start and swept past pole-sitter Verstappen to lead into Tamburello with Norris third ahead of Magnussen, on medium tyres, and Perez.His Alfa Romeo was badly damaged, but he was unhurt while Gasly suffered a puncture.This collision prompted a Safety Car intervention while the debris was cleared.After four laps, the racing resumed with Magnussen given a black-and-white warning flag for weaving in front of Perez on the straight.Sainz, who had a miserable weekend in Melbourne and a crash in Friday practice, demonstrated his bold recovery powers by taking Norris for fourth after starting from 10th on the grid.Published in Dawn, April 24th, 2022


MANCHESTER: Gabriel Jesus scored four goals as Manchester City thrashed Watford 5-1 to open up a four-point lead in the Premier League title race, while Arsenal beat Manchester United 3-1 to take control of the race for fourth.
City are five games away from defending their title, but manager Pep Guardiola has warned they will need to win every one to hold off Liverpool’s storming end to the season.
Guardiola could afford the luxury of making six changes for the visit of the Hornets, who are headed back to the Championship.
Jesus, who was strongly linked with a summer move to Arsenal this week, was one of those recalled to the starting line-up and gave Guardiola a tough call to make in his selection for Real Madrid’s visit to the Etihad on Tuesday in the first leg of the Champions League semi-finals.
The Brazilian took just four minutes to open the scoring with a tap-in from Oleksandr Zinchenko’s cross and doubled City’s lead by heading home Kevin De Bruyne’s wicked ball into the box.
Hassane Kamara’s fine strike briefly gave Watford hope, but Rodri’s stunning volley quickly restored City’s two-goal cushion.
Jesus completed his first Premier League hat-trick from the penalty spot and had De Bruyne to thank for another inch-perfect pass as he blasted in his fourth.
Guardiola could then afford the luxury of withdrawing De Bruyne, Rodri and Aymeric Laporte to keep them fresh to face Real.
Liverpool have the chance to cut the gap at the top back to one point when they host struggling Everton in the Merseyside derby on Sunday.
The other side of Manchester will likely be missing out on Champions League football next season after Arsenal rounded off a miserable week for United at the Emirates.
Mikel Arteta’s men made the most of a fast start as Nuno Tavares opened the scoring after just two minutes before Bukayo Saka’s penalty made it 2-0.
Cristiano Ronaldo returned to the United side after missing Tuesday’s 4-0 humiliation at the hands of Liverpool due to the death of his newborn baby son.
The five-time Ballon d’Or winner kept the visitors in the game as he struck before half-time for his 100th Premier League goal.
But the United fans will wonder why Ronaldo passed on responsibility to Bruno Fernandes when the Red Devils were awarded a penalty on the hour mark.
Fernandes hit the post and Granit Xhaka rubbed salt into United wounds with a blistering strike to seal a win that moves Arsenal three points ahead of Tottenham Hotspur, who travel to Brentford later on Saturday.
United remain in sixth, now six points adrift of the Gunners, and interim boss Ralf Rangnick admitted their hopes of a top-four finish are now over.
“For me even before that game it was not very likely, but after today’s result the top four is gone,” said Rangnick.
Newcastle’s fine form since being able to splash the cash of the Saudi sovereign wealth fund in January continued as Joelinton scored twice in a 3-0 win at bottom-of-the-table Norwich City.
Bruno Guimaraes was also on target as the Magpies climbed into ninth.
Leicester City and Aston Villa played out a goalless draw at the King Power.
Published in Dawn, April 24th, 2022

Guardiola could afford the luxury of making six changes for the visit of the Hornets, who are headed back to the Championship.Jesus, who was strongly linked with a summer move to Arsenal this week, was one of those recalled to the starting line-up and gave Guardiola a tough call to make in his selection for Real Madrid’s visit to the Etihad on Tuesday in the first leg of the Champions League semi-finals.Liverpool have the chance to cut the gap at the top back to one point when they host struggling Everton in the Merseyside derby on Sunday.The other side of Manchester will likely be missing out on Champions League football next season after Arsenal rounded off a miserable week for United at the Emirates.Mikel Arteta’s men made the most of a fast start as Nuno Tavares opened the scoring after just two minutes before Bukayo Saka’s penalty made it 2-0.Cristiano Ronaldo returned to the United side after missing Tuesday’s 4-0 humiliation at the hands of Liverpool due to the death of his newborn baby son.The five-time Ballon d’Or winner kept the visitors in the game as he struck before half-time for his 100th Premier League goal.But the United fans will wonder why Ronaldo passed on responsibility to Bruno Fernandes when the Red Devils were awarded a penalty on the hour mark.United remain in sixth, now six points adrift of the Gunners, and interim boss Ralf Rangnick admitted their hopes of a top-four finish are now over.“For me even before that game it was not very likely, but after today’s result the top four is gone,” said Rangnick.Bruno Guimaraes was also on target as the Magpies climbed into ninth.Leicester City and Aston Villa played out a goalless draw at the King Power.Published in Dawn, April 24th, 2022


LONDON: Ben Stokes has backed Joe Root to continue his run-scoring spree with the bat, offering his England team mate  “nothing but love, respect and support” after his decision to quit Test captaincy.
Root stepped down last week, saying the job had taken a heavy toll on him recently, after dispiriting tours of Australia and the Caribbean capped a string of poor results.
The 31-year-old Root is England’s second-highest Test run-scorer of all time, behind Alastair Cook. His tally of 5,295 runs as skipper is the highest by an England captain. He scored 1,708 test runs in 2021, including six Test centuries.
Stokes thanked Root for his support as captain, saying their relationship went  “deeper and further” than just team-mates and they have been  “good friends” for a long time. Stokes said Root called him to inform of his decision.
“As you can imagine it was quite an emotional conversation, but it wasn’t a long chat, there will be time for that in the future,” he continued. “This was an emotional few minutes and in return there was nothing but love, respect and support from me because that is what Joe Root has shown me throughout his time as England Test captain.”
England appointed former batter Rob Key as the managing director of the men’s cricket team while Stokes, who was Root’s deputy, has been tipped as a favourite to become the next captain.
“Clearly as vice-captain and someone who has stood in on a few occasions my name will be strongly talked about,” Stokes added.
“But all I will say is that it is a huge honour to captain England and whoever does it will get to enjoy that responsibility of trying to take the team forward.”
Published in Dawn, April 24th, 2022

His tally of 5,295 runs as skipper is the highest by an England captain.He scored 1,708 test runs in 2021, including six Test centuries.Stokes said Root called him to inform of his decision.“As you can imagine it was quite an emotional conversation, but it wasn’t a long chat, there will be time for that in the future,” he continued.“This was an emotional few minutes and in return there was nothing but love, respect and support from me because that is what Joe Root has shown me throughout his time as England Test captain.”
England appointed former batter Rob Key as the managing director of the men’s cricket team while Stokes, who was Root’s deputy, has been tipped as a favourite to become the next captain.“Clearly as vice-captain and someone who has stood in on a few occasions my name will be strongly talked about,” Stokes added.“But all I will say is that it is a huge honour to captain England and whoever does it will get to enjoy that responsibility of trying to take the team forward.”
Published in Dawn, April 24th, 2022


 
KARACHI: Walking in to bat in his first competitive cricket match after four months, Abid Ali felt a mixture of delight and disbelief.
Abid’s world had turned upside down when he was diagnosed for acute coronary syndrome which threatened to put his flourishing Test career on hold.
This week, he finally made his comeback. Not at international level but in a Ramzan T20 tournament in Faisalabad. Just being able to come back and bat has been some journey for the 34-year-old.
In December last year, Abid had returned home after a successful tour of Bangladesh where he played a key role in Pakistan’s 2-0 Test series triumph and was looking forward to the remainder of the domestic season for Central Punjab.
On December 21, in the Quaid Trophy match against Khyber Pakhtunkhwa at the UBL Sports Complex here, Abid experienced pain around his chest and shoulder while batting on the last day.
He complained about the discomfort to his team’s physiotherapist Dr. Asad, who medicated him but it did not work.
Few minutes after returning to the crease, Abid told the umpires he wanted to retire and while walking off, he vomited before being taken to a private hospital in the city.
Following ECG tests at the hospital, the doctors concluded that Abid was going through a heart condition and that there was blockage in one of his arteries.
“Initially, I was shocked,”Abid told Dawn on Friday, recalling the moment when the doctors revealed to him their diagnosis after his angioplasty. “I couldn’t contemplate what was happening with me.”
At that point, Abid had convinced himself that after making it to the international level at 31, his career was already over after just 16 Tests and six One-day Internationals.
Had it not been for the people around him during that difficult time, which included 20 days of rehabilitation period at the hospital, he might have never hoped again.
“The doctors, the nurses and the hospital staff; all of them told me that I can play again,” said Abid. “All of them wanted me to be an example for people who go through such difficulties.”
Abid’s colleagues, former players, Pakistan Cricket Board officials and journalists, he said, reached out to him to extend support and motivate him.
“There were times when I thought my career was over, but I knew I needed a different mindset,” said the Lahore-born right-hander. “Whenever I felt negative, I readily switched myself to a positive mindset and kept faith in God.”
Three months into his recovery period Australia visited Pakistan for three Tests, as many ODIs and a solitary T20 game. It was the side’s first tour to the country after 24 years and Abid, who would have been an automatic selection for the Tests, had been waiting for it.
“I did feel sad not being a part of the team in the Australia Tests,” he said. “I think it was God’s will and I’ve no complaints. I’m happy for my team-mates who made their dream of playing at home in such an important series come true.”
On the day Pakistan’s first Test against Australia kicked off, Abid started training in the nets, being told my doctors that he will be able to return to full activity in the next three months.
“The staff at the National High-Performance Center, the coaches and the doctors backed me fully during that time and assured me a comeback wasn’t far away,” he said.
Turning out for Faisalabad Knights in the Saga Premier League on Wednesday, Abid celebrated his comeback with shots all around the ground as he scored a 32-ball 50. He pulled and cut on the back foot, drove and flicked on the front and danced down the wicket to clear the boundary.
The maximum came after a length delivery by Pakistan discard Mohammad Talha smashed into his helmet. Abid took the blow and carried on. That’s exactly what he’s done in the last four months.
“My happiness and excitement was more than what a kid feels when he is allowed to go outside to play,” said the veteran of 130 first class matches.
What the future holds for Abid is something he isn’t contemplating just yet. After all that he has gone through, he understands life is more than just cricket and the fame that comes with it.
“I can only try my best, the rest is in God’s hands,” he said. “I feel life is all about being a nice person, being closer to God, helping people who need you and forgiving the ones you’re not happy with.”
Published in Dawn, April 23rd, 2022

This week, he finally made his comeback.Not at international level but in a Ramzan T20 tournament in Faisalabad.Just being able to come back and bat has been some journey for the 34-year-old.He complained about the discomfort to his team’s physiotherapist Dr. Asad, who medicated him but it did not work.“I couldn’t contemplate what was happening with me.”
At that point, Abid had convinced himself that after making it to the international level at 31, his career was already over after just 16 Tests and six One-day Internationals.Had it not been for the people around him during that difficult time, which included 20 days of rehabilitation period at the hospital, he might have never hoped again.“The doctors, the nurses and the hospital staff; all of them told me that I can play again,” said Abid.“There were times when I thought my career was over, but I knew I needed a different mindset,” said the Lahore-born right-hander.It was the side’s first tour to the country after 24 years and Abid, who would have been an automatic selection for the Tests, had been waiting for it.“I did feel sad not being a part of the team in the Australia Tests,” he said.“I think it was God’s will and I’ve no complaints.I’m happy for my team-mates who made their dream of playing at home in such an important series come true.”
On the day Pakistan’s first Test against Australia kicked off, Abid started training in the nets, being told my doctors that he will be able to return to full activity in the next three months.He pulled and cut on the back foot, drove and flicked on the front and danced down the wicket to clear the boundary.The maximum came after a length delivery by Pakistan discard Mohammad Talha smashed into his helmet.Abid took the blow and carried on.That’s exactly what he’s done in the last four months.“My happiness and excitement was more than what a kid feels when he is allowed to go outside to play,” said the veteran of 130 first class matches.What the future holds for Abid is something he isn’t contemplating just yet.After all that he has gone through, he understands life is more than just cricket and the fame that comes with it.“I can only try my best, the rest is in God’s hands,” he said.


LONDON: The decision to bar Russian and Belarusian players from Wimbledon over Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine will incite  “hatred and intolerance”, the Belarus Tennis Federation (BTF) said, adding that they are seeking legal advice on the ban. 
The grasscourt major announced on Wednesday that Russian and Belarusian competitors would be banned from this year’s tournament. Belarus is a key staging area for the invasion, which Russia calls a “special military operation”. 
“The Belarusian Tennis Federation categorically condemns the decision of the Wimbledon organizers to suspend the Belarusian and Russian tennis players,” BTF said in a statement on Thursday. “Such destructive actions in no way contribute to the resolution of conflicts, but only incite hatred and intolerance on ethnic grounds.” 
The decision means that Belarusian players including fourth-ranked Aryna Sabalenka and two-time Grand Slam champion Victoria Azarenka will not be able to compete at the June 27-July 10 tournament. 
The BTF also criticised initial UK government plans to force Russian and Belarusian players to sign statements condemning the war as a pre-condition of being allowed to play at Wimbledon. 
This showed “incompetence and ignorance”, they said. 
“Illegal decisions of international tennis organisations in relation to our athletes undermine, first of all, the reputation of these organisations, and the inconsistency of statements and actions between them only confirm the incompetence and unilateral decision-making,” the BTF added. 
“BTF management is still consulting with international law firms on sports law and developing a strategy that is aimed primarily at protecting the Belarusian tennis players around the world and tennis in the Republic of Belarus in general.” 
The All England Lawn Tennis Club’s (AELTC) decision has been criticised by the ATP and WTA Tours, though it said it would “consider and respond accordingly” if circumstances change between now and June. 
On Friday, Olympic champion Alexander Zverev joined the chorus of criticism against the decision by the organisers of Wimbledon. 
The 25-year-old Zverev, currently ranked third in the world, said he sees “no reason why” players from Russia or Belarus “shouldn’t play in Wimbledon”. 
At the moment, players representing the two countries are allowed to take part in ATP and WTA events but are barred from competing under the name or flag of their countries. 
Zverev says “it’s absolutely correct” that Russian and Belarussian teams are banned from tennis competitions. 
The International Tennis Federation (ITF) has already barred both countries from the Davis Cup and the Billie Jean King Cup. 
“That is something against Russia, I understand that,” added Zverev as he prepares for next week’s ATP tournament in Munich. “I think we are all against the war, what is happening in Ukraine is inhumane and shouldn’t be happening.” 
Zverev was born in Hamburg to Russian parents. 
He stood up for his close friend, Russia’s Andrey Rublev, who on Thursday blasted the decision by Wimbledon officials as “complete discrimination”. 
The decision means Rublev as well as players like compatriot and world number two Daniil Medvedev sit out the June 27-July 10 tournament. 
“I have spoken to Andrey,” said Zverev, who pointed out Rublev has already taken a stand against Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 
At the Dubai tournament in February, Rublev had scribbled “No war please” on a courtside TV camera after a victory. 
“He [Rublev] is also ready to help Ukraine,” added Zverev. “He is ready to oppose the war, he is ready to send his prize money to Ukraine.”  
Likewise, US tennis trailblazer Billie Jean King, a founder of the WTA in 1973, also spoke out against the decision. 
“I cannot support the banning of individual athletes from any tournament, simply because of their nationality,” she said. 
Ukraine’s top female player Elina Svitolina had said she feels that Russian and Belarusian players who do speak out against the invasion “should be allowed” to compete at Wimbledon. 
“We don’t want them banned completely,” Svitolina said in an interview with the BBC on Thursday. “If players don’t speak out against the Russian government then it is the right thing to ban them. 
“We just want them to speak up, if they are with us and the rest of the world or the Russian government. This is for me the main point. 
“If they didn’t choose, didn’t vote for this government, then it’s fair they should be allowed to play and compete.”
Published in Dawn, April 23rd, 2022

The grasscourt major announced on Wednesday that Russian and Belarusian competitors would be banned from this year’s tournament.Belarus is a key staging area for the invasion, which Russia calls a “special military operation”.“Such destructive actions in no way contribute to the resolution of conflicts, but only incite hatred and intolerance on ethnic grounds.” 
The decision means that Belarusian players including fourth-ranked Aryna Sabalenka and two-time Grand Slam champion Victoria Azarenka will not be able to compete at the June 27-July 10 tournament.This showed “incompetence and ignorance”, they said.“BTF management is still consulting with international law firms on sports law and developing a strategy that is aimed primarily at protecting the Belarusian tennis players around the world and tennis in the Republic of Belarus in general.” 
The All England Lawn Tennis Club’s (AELTC) decision has been criticised by the ATP and WTA Tours, though it said it would “consider and respond accordingly” if circumstances change between now and June.On Friday, Olympic champion Alexander Zverev joined the chorus of criticism against the decision by the organisers of Wimbledon.Zverev says “it’s absolutely correct” that Russian and Belarussian teams are banned from tennis competitions.The International Tennis Federation (ITF) has already barred both countries from the Davis Cup and the Billie Jean King Cup.“That is something against Russia, I understand that,” added Zverev as he prepares for next week’s ATP tournament in Munich.“I think we are all against the war, what is happening in Ukraine is inhumane and shouldn’t be happening.” 
Zverev was born in Hamburg to Russian parents.At the Dubai tournament in February, Rublev had scribbled “No war please” on a courtside TV camera after a victory.“He [Rublev] is also ready to help Ukraine,” added Zverev.“I cannot support the banning of individual athletes from any tournament, simply because of their nationality,” she said.“We don’t want them banned completely,” Svitolina said in an interview with the BBC on Thursday.“If players don’t speak out against the Russian government then it is the right thing to ban them.“We just want them to speak up, if they are with us and the rest of the world or the Russian government.This is for me the main point.“If they didn’t choose, didn’t vote for this government, then it’s fair they should be allowed to play and compete.”
Published in Dawn, April 23rd, 2022


IMOLA: Formula One world champion Max Verstappen put Red Bull on pole position in a wet and crash-interrupted Emilia Romagna Grand Prix qualifying on Friday to secure top slot for the first sprint of the season.
The pole was his first of the 2022 campaign.
Ferrari’s championship leader Charles Leclerc, thwarted by a late stoppage, will line up alongside the Dutchman on the front row for Saturday’s 100km race to decide who starts first in Sunday’s main Grand Prix at Imola.
Verstappen goes into the Formula One record books as the pole setter for the weekend, however, regardless of where he starts on Sunday.
The winner of the sprint will take eight points instead of the three available at each of last season’s three such weekends.
Leclerc has a 34 point lead over Mercedes’ George Russell in the championship after winning two of the three rounds to date and taking all three bonus points available for fastest laps.
Each of Friday’s three qualifying phases had to be halted after incidents, with the red flags brought out five times in total and the pole contenders ultimately splashing around on intermediate tyres and with plumes of spray.
The final one, triggered by McLaren’s Lando Norris becoming stuck in the gravel runoff, brought an end to the proceedings with 38 seconds remaining and the Briton qualifying a strong third.
Kevin Magnussen was fourth for Haas, ahead of Alpine’s Fernando Alonso and McLaren’s Daniel Ricciardo with Red Bull’s Sergio Perez seventh and Valtteri Bottas eighth for Alfa Romeo. Sebastian Vettel starts ninth for Aston Martin.
Verstappen’s best time of one minute and 27.999 seconds was 0.779 quicker than Leclerc’s quickest, although the final session was interrupted three times.
Carlos Sainz had already spun and smashed his Ferrari into the tyre barrier in the second stint, bringing out red flags and sending the Spaniard back to the paddock on a scooter. He qualified 10th.
Mercedes’ Lewis Hamilton had scraped into that phase by the skin of his teeth, the seven-times world champion only 15th and just 0.004 of a second quicker than AlphaTauri’s Yuki Tsunoda on a drying track.
Russell also ran dangerously close to missing the early cut and both then failed to make the final top 10, the first time that had happened to the team since 2012.
Leclerc had been fastest in Q1, before the rain came, and ahead of Verstappen and Sainz. The Monegasque had also set the pace in practice.
Alex Albon failed to set a time after the right rear brake of his Williams caught fire with the tyre then exploding, scattering flaming debris on the track and bringing out red flags.
Alpine’s Esteban Ocon qualified 19th after a suspected gearbox problem.
Published in Dawn, April 23rd, 2022

IMOLA: Formula One world champion Max Verstappen put Red Bull on pole position in a wet and crash-interrupted Emilia Romagna Grand Prix qualifying on Friday to secure top slot for the first sprint of the season.The pole was his first of the 2022 campaign.The winner of the sprint will take eight points instead of the three available at each of last season’s three such weekends.Sebastian Vettel starts ninth for Aston Martin.Verstappen’s best time of one minute and 27.999 seconds was 0.779 quicker than Leclerc’s quickest, although the final session was interrupted three times.Carlos Sainz had already spun and smashed his Ferrari into the tyre barrier in the second stint, bringing out red flags and sending the Spaniard back to the paddock on a scooter.He qualified 10th.Russell also ran dangerously close to missing the early cut and both then failed to make the final top 10, the first time that had happened to the team since 2012.Leclerc had been fastest in Q1, before the rain came, and ahead of Verstappen and Sainz.The Monegasque had also set the pace in practice.Alpine’s Esteban Ocon qualified 19th after a suspected gearbox problem.Published in Dawn, April 23rd, 2022


The International Cricket Council (ICC) announced on Friday that Wasim Khan, the former Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chief executive, had been appointed its general manager of cricket.
According to the ICC, Khan — who has also served as the chief executive of the Leicestershire County Cricket Club and Chance to Shine — will take up his post next month.
He will take over from Geoff Allardice who spent eight years in the role before being appointed as the ICC CEO, the ICC said.
 
"I am delighted to welcome Khan to the ICC. He brings an in-depth knowledge of our sport and its stakeholders, and his firsthand experience of the international cricket landscape will be of enormous benefit as we implement the ICC global growth strategy and move forward into a new events cycle," the press release quoted the outgoing general manager of cricket as saying.
Meanwhile, Khan said that he was "honoured" to be joining the ICC. "I can’t wait to get started and work in partnership with our members to strengthen and grow our sport," he said.
"I’m particularly excited by the ICC’s commitment to the growth of the women’s game, and I look forward to playing my part in really accelerating that growth over the next decade," he added.
Khan is an MBA from Warwick Business School and is also a former professional cricketer. He played county cricket in England from 1995 to 2001, during which he represented Warwickshire, Sussex and Derbyshire.
He also played in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. In a 58-match first-class career, Wasim scored 2,835 runs with five centuries and 17 half-centuries, with the highest score of 181.

He will take over from Geoff Allardice who spent eight years in the role before being appointed as the ICC CEO, the ICC said."I am delighted to welcome Khan to the ICC.He brings an in-depth knowledge of our sport and its stakeholders, and his firsthand experience of the international cricket landscape will be of enormous benefit as we implement the ICC global growth strategy and move forward into a new events cycle," the press release quoted the outgoing general manager of cricket as saying.Meanwhile, Khan said that he was "honoured" to be joining the ICC."I can’t wait to get started and work in partnership with our members to strengthen and grow our sport," he said.Khan is an MBA from Warwick Business School and is also a former professional cricketer.He played county cricket in England from 1995 to 2001, during which he represented Warwickshire, Sussex and Derbyshire.He also played in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.


LAHORE: Pakistani cricket chiefs Friday publicly disowned Sussex paceman Naveed Arif, who has been suspended by the England and Wales Cricket Board on charges of match-fixing.
Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) head Najam Sethi said they had “no relations” with Arif, who was charged on Thursday with six offences relating to a 40-over game between Sussex and Kent in August 2011.
Pakistan has an unenviable record for fixing and corruption in cricket, and PCB chief Sethi was quick to stress Arif's estrangement.
“He is out of Pakistan for the last three years and he has no relations with Pakistan cricket,” Sethi told reporters.
However, Arif featured in two matches in Pakistan's domestic Twenty20 tournament for Sialkot Stallions in December 2012.
He also toured Australia with Pakistan “A” team in 2009 before moving to England, where he qualified as a non-overseas player for Sussex through his wife's Danish passport.
Sethi said Pakistan have taken tough measures to crack down on cricket fixers.
“We have taken some stringent steps to stop corruption and have adopted zero tolerance on such things,” he said.
Former Test leg-spinner Danish Kaneria is serving a life ban for spot-fixing in an English county game.
Three Pakistani stars – Salman Butt, Mohammad Asif and Mohammed Amir – were given bans and jail time for their role in spot-fixing in the now-notorious Lord's Test against England in 2011.
A Pakistani international player who featured alongside Arif for the Stallions in 2012 said he could was amazed to hear he was involved in fixing.
“He (Arif) was a very shy and unassuming guy and had always played the game for passion,” the player told AFP on condition of anonimity.
“Maybe, he was lured into fixing as he failed to make it to the national team in Pakistan and wasn't a regular member for the county.”

Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) head Najam Sethi said they had “no relations” with Arif, who was charged on Thursday with six offences relating to a 40-over game between Sussex and Kent in August 2011.“He is out of Pakistan for the last three years and he has no relations with Pakistan cricket,” Sethi told reporters.However, Arif featured in two matches in Pakistan's domestic Twenty20 tournament for Sialkot Stallions in December 2012.Sethi said Pakistan have taken tough measures to crack down on cricket fixers.“We have taken some stringent steps to stop corruption and have adopted zero tolerance on such things,” he said.Three Pakistani stars – Salman Butt, Mohammad Asif and Mohammed Amir – were given bans and jail time for their role in spot-fixing in the now-notorious Lord's Test against England in 2011.A Pakistani international player who featured alongside Arif for the Stallions in 2012 said he could was amazed to hear he was involved in fixing.“Maybe, he was lured into fixing as he failed to make it to the national team in Pakistan and wasn't a regular member for the county.”


KARACHI: Pakistan Blind Cricket Council (PBCC) on Wednesday pulled out of the Asia Cup Cricket for the Blind, scheduled to be held in Indian city of Kochi from January 17-24, 2016.
The PBCC has decided to withdraw its team due to deteriorating relations between the two countries at present and keeping in view security concerns of Pakistani nationals in India.
In a press statement, PBCC General Manager Cricket Operations Maher M. Yousaf Haroon, said: “Shiv Sena’s attack on Indian cricket’s headquarters in Mumbai, cancellation of PCB chairman’s meeting with BCCI president, [hurling] threats to Aleem Dar from officiating matches [in India] and ICC’s decision to send him back compelled us to consider the matter of Pakistan’s team security seriously.”
Haroon added that the Pakistan team had already started preparations for the event and the team had also been shortlisted but the “current scenario all of a sudden changed” everything.
The PBCC has officially informed the Cricket Association of the Blind in India (CABI) that Pakistan will not take part in the event.
The drama began on Monday when the PCB chief Shaharyar Khan was due to meet his Indian counterpart Shashank Manohar.
Manohar had invited Shaharyar to discuss the prospect of a bilateral series between the two countries. But before the meeting could start some workers of Shiv Sena stormed into the building protesting the PCB chief’s visit and shouting anti-Pakistan slogans.
Earlier, India’s failure to provide security to Pakistan’s commentators and match officials, following Shiv Sena’s hooliganism, also forced Wasim Akram and Shoaib Akhtar to quit the ongoing India-South Africa series and head home early.

KARACHI: Pakistan Blind Cricket Council (PBCC) on Wednesday pulled out of the Asia Cup Cricket for the Blind, scheduled to be held in Indian city of Kochi from January 17-24, 2016.In a press statement, PBCC General Manager Cricket Operations Maher M. Yousaf Haroon, said: “Shiv Sena’s attack on Indian cricket’s headquarters in Mumbai, cancellation of PCB chairman’s meeting with BCCI president, [hurling] threats to Aleem Dar from officiating matches [in India] and ICC’s decision to send him back compelled us to consider the matter of Pakistan’s team security seriously.”
Haroon added that the Pakistan team had already started preparations for the event and the team had also been shortlisted but the “current scenario all of a sudden changed” everything.The drama began on Monday when the PCB chief Shaharyar Khan was due to meet his Indian counterpart Shashank Manohar.Manohar had invited Shaharyar to discuss the prospect of a bilateral series between the two countries.But before the meeting could start some workers of Shiv Sena stormed into the building protesting the PCB chief’s visit and shouting anti-Pakistan slogans.


Rizwan top-scored for Pakistan with 67 from 52 balls in Thursday's semi-final in Dubai to help the Green Shirts post 176, but Australia reeled in the runs to reach Sunday's final against New Zealand.
The team doctor said Rizwan was admitted to hospital on Tuesday and spent two nights in intensive care.
“He made an incredible recovery and was deemed fit before the match,” doctor Najeebullah Soomro said.
“We can see his great determination and tenacity that shows his spirit of performing for the country. And we can see how he performed today.” 
Opener Rizwan showed no sign of illness, clubbing four sixes and three fours before falling to paceman Mitchell Starc.
Captain Babar Azam, who opened the batting with Rizwan, said the 29-year-old was a “little bit down” before the match.
“But when I asked him about his health he said, 'no, I will play,'” said Babar.
During his innings, Rizwan became the first player to score 1,000 runs in T20 internationals in a calendar year.
Scoring 281 for the tournament at an average of 70.25, Rizwan is second only to Babar (303) on the World Cup runs list.
 
“This is a warrior,” said Pakistan batting coach Matthew Hayden, the former Australia Test opener.
“He has been brilliant through [the tournament] and he's got great courage, as has Babar. Fantastic tonight from him.”
'Massive respect'
When the details were shared, sportspersons and fans alike took to Twitter to express their admiration and respect for Rizwan — whose name was among the top 10 trends on the social media site. 
“This is unreal. No wonder Matthew Hayden called him a warrior. Huge respect for Mohammad Rizwan who spent two nights before the #T20WorldCup semi-final in ICU - then top-scored with 67!” tweeted Cricket Australia. 
 
Former star bowler Shoaib Akhtar also shared a picture of Rizwan during his hospital stay, calling him a hero and expressing “massive respect”.
“Can you imagine this guy played for his country today & gave his best?” he asked.
 
Sharing a video of the team doctor talking about Rizwan's illness, the Punjab chief minister's focal person for digital media, Azhar Mashwani, simply wrote: “Love you.”
 

“He made an incredible recovery and was deemed fit before the match,” doctor Najeebullah Soomro said.“We can see his great determination and tenacity that shows his spirit of performing for the country.“But when I asked him about his health he said, 'no, I will play,'” said Babar.Scoring 281 for the tournament at an average of 70.25, Rizwan is second only to Babar (303) on the World Cup runs list.“This is a warrior,” said Pakistan batting coach Matthew Hayden, the former Australia Test opener.“He has been brilliant through [the tournament] and he's got great courage, as has Babar.“This is unreal.No wonder Matthew Hayden called him a warrior.Huge respect for Mohammad Rizwan who spent two nights before the #T20WorldCup semi-final in ICU - then top-scored with 67!” tweeted Cricket Australia.“Can you imagine this guy played for his country today & gave his best?” he asked.Sharing a video of the team doctor talking about Rizwan's illness, the Punjab chief minister's focal person for digital media, Azhar Mashwani, simply wrote: “Love you.”


ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s legendary cricketer Imran Khan left for India on Friday to attend the 2016 World Twenty20’s marquee clash between the two sub-continent giants.
A buoyant Pakistan side will take on the hosts India at the iconic Eden Gardens on March 19.
But Imran, who accompanied his once most trustworthy striker Wasim Akram, will be much more than a spectator. 
He will be providing captain Shahid Afridi with “experience-based tips” to rally Pakistan, who have a history of underperforming against India in big games.
“Shahid Afridi had sought my advice on Pakistan's match against India. I don't know what exactly Pakistan team's grey areas are, but I will try to give them suggestions in the light of my own experience,” Imran told reporters at his Bani Gala residence.
“I’ll suggest the players against succumbing to any pressure.”
Imran, 63, will also be meeting West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee during his stay. “People-to-people contacts are necessary for bettering the relations between the two neighbours,” he said, but added “the relations should be based on mutual respect”.
Meanwhile, Pakistan coach Waqar Younis attempted to downplay the hype surrounding the game, saying it was ultimately just a game of cricket.
“We should take it as a sport,” said Younis.
“There is history between the two nations, not only culturally but also cricket history. The way we have played cricket in the past 50 years it's a treat to watch for the world. It's the most watched game. So we should all cherish that and feel proud of it.”
An upbeat Pakistan come into the match after thrashing Bangladesh, but will have to overcome their World Cup jinx against India.
Pakistan have never won a World Cup encounter against their arch rivals in six 50-over meetings and four T20 clashes.
“History can always be changed,” said Younis.
“We are a bit more confident this time. They can go out of the tournament and that is a big plus for us.
“They will be under more pressure. We have won our opening game and lot of things going in our favour.”
In case you missed it: Pakistan upstage Bangladesh

ISLAMABAD: Pakistan’s legendary cricketer Imran Khan left for India on Friday to attend the 2016 World Twenty20’s marquee clash between the two sub-continent giants.But Imran, who accompanied his once most trustworthy striker Wasim Akram, will be much more than a spectator.He will be providing captain Shahid Afridi with “experience-based tips” to rally Pakistan, who have a history of underperforming against India in big games.Meanwhile, Pakistan coach Waqar Younis attempted to downplay the hype surrounding the game, saying it was ultimately just a game of cricket.“We should take it as a sport,” said Younis.“There is history between the two nations, not only culturally but also cricket history.The way we have played cricket in the past 50 years it's a treat to watch for the world.It's the most watched game.“History can always be changed,” said Younis.“We are a bit more confident this time.They can go out of the tournament and that is a big plus for us.“They will be under more pressure.


“If the Pakistani side had a leader they looked up to and respected like they did him, they would be a much better and more consistent team than they are now,” West Indies great Viv Richards once said of Imran Khan.
Khan was, arguably, Pakistan's finest cricketer. A fierce competitor, his 21-year career was defined by moments where he led a talented but volatile bunch of cricketers to improbable wins.
Relegated to the sidelines after making his debut in 1971, Khan remodelled himself as a genuine fast bowler and came back to erase all doubts about his ability as an international cricketer. He would go onto become one of the greatest all-rounders in the game.
The pinnacle of his career was undoubtedly the 1992 World Cup win, where he battled through injuries to spur a young side to triumph.
As Khan turns 63 today, here's a look at his dazzling career in headlines:
Ramiz Raja on Imran Khan's determination to win the 92 World Cup
There was only one guy who was 100% sure, every time we won or lost any game, that we would win this World Cup. That was our captain. After a while, we thought it wasn’t possible because we had to rely on another team losing to qualify for the semifinals. And it happened that way! It was a dream come true, it was a great moment.
Geoff Boycott on Imran the leader
Any question on captaincy for me, Imran Khan is my favourite, always. Everything he did, nearly always, trying for wickets… when he had the legspinner Abdul Qadir, he really didn't like to bowl him negatively, tried to bowl him to get wickets all the time. And quite frankly, he had to be so strong, aggressive and positive because anybody who's having to handle a Pakistan team is going to have to act like God. That is probably the toughest job in world cricket.
Wasim Akram on learning the art of bowling from Imran Khan
I always followed his advice because I needed somebody to guide me, give me confidence for the ball I was about to bowl…aur Imran say behtar to koi bowler tha hi nahi confidence bharanay kai liyay (and there was no better bowler than Imran when you needed a confidence boost).
West Indies great Viv Richards on Imran Khan
He was one of the fiercest competitors and, no matter how well you were batting, he would always have a delivery which could come and destroy you. I respect him and his cricketing views; and if the Pakistani side had a leader they looked up to and respected like they did him, they would be a much better and more consistent team than they are now. 
Aaqib Javed on how Imran Khan turned Pakistan's fortunes at the 92 World Cup
We then went to Perth for our match against Australia. It was almost impossible for an Asian side to beat Australia at Perth but that was our day. Just before the match, Imran came into the dressing room, spoke for about 20 minutes and turned our psyche around for the rest of the tournament.
He instilled a belief in us. He had this unique quality, a quality that every leader must have: to make people believe in what he is saying.
The late Tony Greig on Imran Khan's leadership
When Imran was captain, there was never question of anyone else being in charge. And that more than anything, won them the 1992 World Cup.
Martin Crowe on Imran Khan the all-rounder
He was the greatest all-rounder since Gary Sobers
Imran Khan on his toughest opponent, Viv Richards:
Of all the players in my time, Viv Richards stood out as the greatest. He was a complete genius. Viv was the only batsman who would attack me. No other batsman could attack me when I was at my peak.
Famous Imran Khan quotes
“I want my team to play today like a cornered tiger when it's at its most dangerous.”
“I have always believed that one should not be scared of losing, I think that really is the key.”
“I believed in myself. I never imagined myself as just an ordinary player.”
“I handpicked that young team and for them to win the World Cup from that impossible situation was a source of such happiness to the Pakistanis. I was so proud of that team. When I retired, I left the best Pakistan team in its history. I was very disappointed that it never achieved its potential.” 
Imran Khan career stats
Tests - 88  
Runs - 3807 
Avg - 37.69
ODIs - 175
Runs - 3709
Avg - 33.41
Wickets
Tests - 362
Avg - 22.81
ODIs - 182
Avg - 26.61

“If the Pakistani side had a leader they looked up to and respected like they did him, they would be a much better and more consistent team than they are now,” West Indies great Viv Richards once said of Imran Khan.Khan was, arguably, Pakistan's finest cricketer.He would go onto become one of the greatest all-rounders in the game.As Khan turns 63 today, here's a look at his dazzling career in headlines:
Ramiz Raja on Imran Khan's determination to win the 92 World Cup
There was only one guy who was 100% sure, every time we won or lost any game, that we would win this World Cup.That was our captain.After a while, we thought it wasn’t possible because we had to rely on another team losing to qualify for the semifinals.And it happened that way!It was a dream come true, it was a great moment.Geoff Boycott on Imran the leader
Any question on captaincy for me, Imran Khan is my favourite, always.And quite frankly, he had to be so strong, aggressive and positive because anybody who's having to handle a Pakistan team is going to have to act like God.That is probably the toughest job in world cricket.Wasim Akram on learning the art of bowling from Imran Khan
I always followed his advice because I needed somebody to guide me, give me confidence for the ball I was about to bowl…aur Imran say behtar to koi bowler tha hi nahi confidence bharanay kai liyay (and there was no better bowler than Imran when you needed a confidence boost).It was almost impossible for an Asian side to beat Australia at Perth but that was our day.He instilled a belief in us.He had this unique quality, a quality that every leader must have: to make people believe in what he is saying.And that more than anything, won them the 1992 World Cup.He was a complete genius.Viv was the only batsman who would attack me.No other batsman could attack me when I was at my peak.I was so proud of that team.When I retired, I left the best Pakistan team in its history.


Every now and then, don’t we all find ourselves looking back at the past, wondering what we were thinking with that teenage hairdo, that impulsive purchase, that late night text or any number of things? We all have a personal collection of such thoughts, assembled with no great care and now an eternal source of piercing discomfort. 
Same replicates at national level, where we look back at wars fought, lives lost, loans borrowed and monies misspent. Some among us, the brooding kind, would cringe at such introspections and think what we might do differently if given a do-over. If only we had a time-travelling DeLorean.
It never occurs to us that instead of dwelling in the past, why do we not live in the present and catch our mistakes in real time? That would save us a lifetime of regret, no? 
I do, however, have plenty to say on and critique his nomination, which might very well turn out to be a stroke of genius but it still wouldn’t matter as the nomination isn't the product of a scientific process, but appears another one of those gut-feel decision.
The premise of this piece is not to never be wrong. Hey, no one is infallible. Some of the brightest minds aided by the greatest of resources have made the biggest of blunders (Read the US invasion of Afghanistan).
It’s that high-risk, low-reward Hail Mary punt that is devoid of any logic and has no real history of success I have a problem with. 
Since then, Raja has never even run a regional body, let alone a messy behemoth that PCB can easily become every other week.
So when the world wants its cricket boards to be chaired by specialised personnel with loads of management experience acquired over a number of years at various levels, Pakistan cricket is still sticking to the policy of its policymakers being plucked out of thin air and given the job on a whim of one individual. 
Former athletes being given top administrative jobs just because of their knowledge of the game and proximity to the prime minister is a practice not practiced in any competitive sport, anywhere in the world. Look up who chairs the boards of widely successful football clubs in Europe, and all you’d find are businessmen, lawyers, former brand executives and whatnot. You would struggle to find a former athlete with 15 months of unremarkable administrative experience, and none in the past 17 years, heading the entire operation. 
Even Saurav Ganguly cut his administrative teeth a tier below and headed the Cricket association of Bengal for five years before given the nod to lead the BCCI.
Sports administration today is a specialised field that is taught at universities and needs specific knowledge and nous. But in the Land of the Pure it is still a widely held belief that any and all jobs in cricket can be better performed by cricketers. What’s forgotten is the fact that just because you scored runs does not mean you would also prove to be an effective cricket administrator, who could strike strategic partnerships, grow the game, increase revenues and also win the battle of politics and diplomacy.
That said, best of luck to the incoming chairman, and let’s hope we’ve struck it lucky with him.
The writer is a development sector professional whose first love is cricket.

Every now and then, don’t we all find ourselves looking back at the past, wondering what we were thinking with that teenage hairdo, that impulsive purchase, that late night text or any number of things?We all have a personal collection of such thoughts, assembled with no great care and now an eternal source of piercing discomfort.Same replicates at national level, where we look back at wars fought, lives lost, loans borrowed and monies misspent.Some among us, the brooding kind, would cringe at such introspections and think what we might do differently if given a do-over.If only we had a time-travelling DeLorean.That would save us a lifetime of regret, no?The premise of this piece is not to never be wrong.Hey, no one is infallible.Some of the brightest minds aided by the greatest of resources have made the biggest of blunders (Read the US invasion of Afghanistan).So when the world wants its cricket boards to be chaired by specialised personnel with loads of management experience acquired over a number of years at various levels, Pakistan cricket is still sticking to the policy of its policymakers being plucked out of thin air and given the job on a whim of one individual.Sports administration today is a specialised field that is taught at universities and needs specific knowledge and nous.But in the Land of the Pure it is still a widely held belief that any and all jobs in cricket can be better performed by cricketers.That said, best of luck to the incoming chairman, and let’s hope we’ve struck it lucky with him.The writer is a development sector professional whose first love is cricket.


Put in to bat, India's rejigged top order wilted in no time and the 2007 champions crawled to 110-7 in 20 overs in the Super 12 match.
Trent Boult took 3-20 and Ish Sodhi returned 2-17 in New Zealand's disciplined bowling display even though they spilled a couple of catches.
Daryl Mitchell made a fluent 49 and skipper Kane Williamson remained not out on 33 as New Zealand triumphed with 33 balls to spare to bounce back from the defeat by Pakistan in their tournament opener. 
Fans who had been hoping to see the Indian team revive their World Cup campaign today, after their crushing 10-wicket loss to Pakistan last Sunday, used social media to express their disappointment and pan the Men in Blue's second successive below-par performance. 
Indian author and editor Minhaz Merchant noted: "NZ actually looked a little embarrassed at winning so easily. They didn’t celebrate much. This is a broken Indian team, in morale & spirit."
 
Former Pakistan fast bowler Shoaib Akhtar termed India's show "disappointing", saying he "really expected a better & strong performance!"
 
The writing was on the wall well before the match ended. "Fear of failure writ large within the Indian camp. You can’t be this bad," tweeted Indian cricket journalist Vikrant Gupta.
 
Senior batsman Azhar Ali said during the match: "It’s not looking good for India ... but we all want India to stay in the tournament. This early exit of India won’t be good for the event."
 
Pakistani journalist Mohammad Malick pulled no punches in his criticism, saying "I think the insufferable arrogance of India cricket team along with the overwhelming majority of Indian fans have forced karma to teach [them] a lesson in humility … through humiliation. Let’s see if they learn even now."
 
Former English cricketer Michael Vaughan had a word of advice for the Indian cricket authorities.
"India should take a leaf out of all other countries … Allow their players to play in other leagues around the world to gain experience," he said. 
 
Cricket presenter Zainab Abbas said "the alarming aspect for India has been the fact that the bowlers also have been unable to pick wickets in both the games. Lost the first by 10 wickets and this one by 8 wickets."
 
While optimistic, former Pakistan captain Shahid Afridi said it would be "nothing but a miracle" if India qualified for the semi-finals at this stage.
 
Indian commentator Harsha Bhogle remarked that India "haven't competed" in the game. "And while it was always going to be a three-way battle in the group, I don't think anyone saw this coming," he said. 
 
Responding to him, a user took a roundabout — but brutal — dig at the Indian team's performance in Group 2 so far. 
"I don’t understand how are people comparing India with Namibia. Have you all lost your mind? Stop this non-sense and show some respect to Namibia. They have actually won one game this World Cup," they wrote. 
 
Per usual, there was an endless supply of memes:
 
 
And Pakistanis had their schadenfreude moment once again.
 
 
 
Header image: Indian players celebrate after the dismissal of New Zealand's Martin Guptill (not pictured) during the Twenty20 World Cup match between India and New Zealand at the Dubai International Cricket Stadium in Dubai on October 31. — AFP

Daryl Mitchell made a fluent 49 and skipper Kane Williamson remained not out on 33 as New Zealand triumphed with 33 balls to spare to bounce back from the defeat by Pakistan in their tournament opener.Fans who had been hoping to see the Indian team revive their World Cup campaign today, after their crushing 10-wicket loss to Pakistan last Sunday, used social media to express their disappointment and pan the Men in Blue's second successive below-par performance.They didn’t celebrate much.This is a broken Indian team, in morale & spirit."The writing was on the wall well before the match ended."Fear of failure writ large within the Indian camp.You can’t be this bad," tweeted Indian cricket journalist Vikrant Gupta.Senior batsman Azhar Ali said during the match: "It’s not looking good for India ... but we all want India to stay in the tournament.This early exit of India won’t be good for the event."Let’s see if they learn even now."Lost the first by 10 wickets and this one by 8 wickets."Indian commentator Harsha Bhogle remarked that India "haven't competed" in the game."I don’t understand how are people comparing India with Namibia.Have you all lost your mind?Stop this non-sense and show some respect to Namibia.They have actually won one game this World Cup," they wrote.Per usual, there was an endless supply of memes:
 
 
And Pakistanis had their schadenfreude moment once again.— AFP


Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chairman Ehsan Mani on Sunday announced that the board's chief executive, Wasim Khan, has stepped down from his position as head of the Cricket Committee. 
The PCB chairman said that Wasim had assumed the role of the cricket committee's chairman when Mohsin Hasan had stepped down "because he himself was interested in some positions within the PCB". 
"[Wasim] is a full-time employee of the PCB, a chief executive, so he could have exerted a lot of influence over the committee," said Mani, in a conversation with the media.
According to the PCB, Mani and Wasim had mutually decided it would be best for Wasim to step down as the head and while he will remain a part of the committee, an independent chairman for the committee will be appointed. 
 
"I want this to be a completely independent committee comprised of former cricketers, including international cricketers, who can dispense clear advice, do a critical analysis and who have access to all levels of cricket, whether domestic or international.
"They can speak to the captain, the coach, challenge our senior officials — even Wasim, discuss the wickets, the pitches, the grounds," said the PCB chairman, as he explained the development.
"Wasim, too, is accountable. So it was not appropriate for him to run the committee." 
Mudassar Nazar's PCB contract to end next year
Meanwhile, Mudassar Nazar who is the director of academies, confirmed that he will not be seeking an extension to his contract when it expires on May 31 next year.
According to a PCB statement, Nazar joined the PCB as Director – Academies on 1 June 1, 2016 on a three-year contract which was extended to another year.
“It has been an exciting and satisfying time with the PCB as Director – Academies. When I had joined from the ICC Academy in Dubai in June 2016, I was clear in my mind that it will be a three-year period, but I extended to another year after being requested and convinced by my colleagues.
“However, it is now time for me to return to the United Kingdom, spend time with my family and explore other opportunities," said Nazar about his decision.
“I can reflect on my tenure at the National Cricket Academy with satisfaction as we have been able to identify and produce a number of quality cricketers, some of whom have already represented Pakistan while others are knocking on the doorsteps of international cricket," the director added.
Mani lauded Nazar's services to the board during his time with PCB.
 
"Mudassar has contributed a lot to Pakistan cricket. His contract was for three years. When his contract expired in May, I had only been with the PCB for six months, and Wasim for two months. I thought it appropriate for him to serve for one more year. And he thought the same and was happy," he said.
The PCB chairman said that while it had not yet been decided whether the new candidate should be from Pakistan or abroad, his "personal wish" was to have a Pakistani appointed. 
"However, it must be acknowledged that academy programmes elsewhere in the world are far ahead from us. We will get their expertise. We might appoint them as consultants so they can advise us on how to best run the programme.
"But my wish will be to have a Pakistani run the academy," he reiterated.
Future plans
Mani negated all impressions that he had differences with management. "I had said since day one that I want to have a very professional board. Cricket is a professional game and we will benefit from cricket only when there is a professional board to run affairs."
He said it was with this view that some people had decided that they must move forward and contribute differently.
The PCB chairman said the future plan is to have the academy programme spread throughout the country versus just being centred in Lahore. 
He said six centres of excellence will be established in Lahore, Karachi, Multan, Rawalpindi,  Peshawar, and Quetta. The purpose will be to have development programmes induct trainees 16 years and up, then U-19 and A teams, etc.
"Our sporting culture, fitness programmes, dietary requirements should begin at a young age, when they (young cricketers) first come to play. When we see they have the potential to represent Pakistan, we must turn them into professional sportsmen. For that, we will need to bring in changes to our system."
"And obviously, for that, we will need to bring in fresh blood."
He said good relationships cannot be built while sitting in Pakistan and can only be fostered with person-to-person contacts.
"When you sit with someone, eat with them, then confidence builds. Sri Lanka is coming because they have confidence. They know that when someone comes to meet them and talk to them, then the other side can be trusted."
He said that when Wasim and Zakir went to Australia and met with cricket Australia, it was decided that after 2023, all the Test series with Australia will have three matches.
"Additionally, we will be sending in three new players every year to New South Wales on scholarships. So our players get the opportunity to play in those conditions.
"So it is never a joy ride. No one goes for fun and entertainment."
Bangladesh's review of security
Speaking of the recent security overview by Bangladesh, he said four serving army colonels from the country had come to inspect the arrangements and had given a very positive report. "They have no problems with the team coming to Pakistan."
"As far as our contact with the Bangladesh cricket board is concerned, we got no signals that they have any reservations."

Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) chairman Ehsan Mani on Sunday announced that the board's chief executive, Wasim Khan, has stepped down from his position as head of the Cricket Committee."Wasim, too, is accountable.So it was not appropriate for him to run the committee."According to a PCB statement, Nazar joined the PCB as Director – Academies on 1 June 1, 2016 on a three-year contract which was extended to another year.“It has been an exciting and satisfying time with the PCB as Director – Academies.“However, it is now time for me to return to the United Kingdom, spend time with my family and explore other opportunities," said Nazar about his decision.“I can reflect on my tenure at the National Cricket Academy with satisfaction as we have been able to identify and produce a number of quality cricketers, some of whom have already represented Pakistan while others are knocking on the doorsteps of international cricket," the director added.Mani lauded Nazar's services to the board during his time with PCB."Mudassar has contributed a lot to Pakistan cricket.His contract was for three years.I thought it appropriate for him to serve for one more year.And he thought the same and was happy," he said.We will get their expertise.We might appoint them as consultants so they can advise us on how to best run the programme."But my wish will be to have a Pakistani run the academy," he reiterated."I had said since day one that I want to have a very professional board.Cricket is a professional game and we will benefit from cricket only when there is a professional board to run affairs."The purpose will be to have development programmes induct trainees 16 years and up, then U-19 and A teams, etc.When we see they have the potential to represent Pakistan, we must turn them into professional sportsmen.For that, we will need to bring in changes to our system.""And obviously, for that, we will need to bring in fresh blood.""When you sit with someone, eat with them, then confidence builds.Sri Lanka is coming because they have confidence.They know that when someone comes to meet them and talk to them, then the other side can be trusted.""Additionally, we will be sending in three new players every year to New South Wales on scholarships.So our players get the opportunity to play in those conditions."So it is never a joy ride.No one goes for fun and entertainment.""They have no problems with the team coming to Pakistan."


The Board of Governors of the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) on Wednesday "unanimously accepted" the resignation of chief executive Wasim Khan.
Khan had joined the PCB on a three-year contract on Feb 1, 2019. He had tendered his resignation from the post earlier in the day which the PCB's BoG accepted in its virtual meeting.
PCB Chairman Ramiz Raja commended Khan for his "excellent leadership and decision-making during the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure cricket remained unaffected and continued to be played at the domestic and international levels."
“The PCB owes Wasim Khan a debt of gratitude for his good leadership and we wish him well in his future plans and career endeavours,” Raja said.
In his statement following his resignation, Khan said it was an honour to serve the PCB, adding that "it was hugely satisfying to see Sri Lanka playing Tests in Rawalpindi and Karachi, and the homecoming of the PSL during the last two years."
Explaining the reason for his resignation, he said: “With a five-year strategy in place, new domestic structure in its third season and the investment in women’s cricket in an upward direction, I feel it is the right time to move on and reunite with my young family."
He also conveyed his best wishes to the new PCB chief, saying, "I am sure there will be exciting times ahead for Pakistan Cricket under his leadership.”
Khan is an MBA from Warwick Business School and is also a former professional cricketer. He played county cricket in England from 1995 to 2001, during which he represented Warwickshire, Sussex and Derbyshire.
He also played in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. In a 58-match first-class career, Wasim scored 2,835 runs with five centuries and 17 half-centuries, with the highest score of 181.
Khan's resignation comes as newly appointed PCB Chairman Ramiz Raja has called for a complete overhaul of the system. At his inaugural press conference, he had called for resetting Pakistan cricket's compass and direction.
Misbah had cited bio-secure bubbles as the reason behind his decision to quit while Waqar had said it was a "straightforward decision" for him after learning of Misbah's plans.
The pair still had a year each left in their contracts after being appointed in September 2019.
'Another sad news for Pakistani cricket'
Khan's resignation drew mixed responses. Journalist Fazal Abbas called the development "another sad news" from Pakistan cricket and requested the PCB chairman to not accept Khan's resignation.
 
Sports anchor Shoaib Jatt, however, described Khan's tenure as a "black time" and said he played many bad moves.
 
Journalist Wajahat Kazmi said Khan had tendered his resignation "as anticipated".
 

The Board of Governors of the Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) on Wednesday "unanimously accepted" the resignation of chief executive Wasim Khan.Khan had joined the PCB on a three-year contract on Feb 1, 2019.He had tendered his resignation from the post earlier in the day which the PCB's BoG accepted in its virtual meeting.PCB Chairman Ramiz Raja commended Khan for his "excellent leadership and decision-making during the Covid-19 pandemic to ensure cricket remained unaffected and continued to be played at the domestic and international levels."He played county cricket in England from 1995 to 2001, during which he represented Warwickshire, Sussex and Derbyshire.He also played in Australia, New Zealand and South Africa.In a 58-match first-class career, Wasim scored 2,835 runs with five centuries and 17 half-centuries, with the highest score of 181.At his inaugural press conference, he had called for resetting Pakistan cricket's compass and direction.Misbah had cited bio-secure bubbles as the reason behind his decision to quit while Waqar had said it was a "straightforward decision" for him after learning of Misbah's plans.The pair still had a year each left in their contracts after being appointed in September 2019.'Another sad news for Pakistani cricket'
Khan's resignation drew mixed responses.Journalist Wajahat Kazmi said Khan had tendered his resignation "as anticipated".


HOVE: Pakistan and Sussex cricket teams observed a minute's silence in the memory of Abdul Sattar Edhi, who passed away in the late hours of Friday, before the start of play on Saturday. 
The national side also donned black arm-bands to honour the country's most celebrated philanthropist. 
The national side is locking horns with Sussex for its second first-class contest before the first of the four Test matches begins Thursday. 
Pakistan's official kit to feature Edhi Foundation logo on English tour
After a decent show in the first three-day match against Somerset, the unchanged batting line-up put up 363 runs for the loss of five wickets by the end of first day after which Misbah-ul-Haq declared the innings.
Pakistan's One-Day International (ODI) skipper, Azhar Ali, outshone his teammates with a remarkable 266-ball 145, his second century on the tour.
Veteran batsmen — Younis Khan and Misbah — followed suit, scored half-centuries. 
With three changes in the bowling line-up, Pakistan fancy defending their first innings lead. 
Mohammad Amir, Rahat Ali, and Yasir Shah have been rested to make way for Imran Khan, Wahab Riaz, and Zulfiqar Baber. 
Pakistan will play England in four Tests, five ODIs, and a Twenty20 International in the two-month-long tour. 
. 

The national side also donned black arm-bands to honour the country's most celebrated philanthropist.Pakistan's official kit to feature Edhi Foundation logo on English tour
After a decent show in the first three-day match against Somerset, the unchanged batting line-up put up 363 runs for the loss of five wickets by the end of first day after which Misbah-ul-Haq declared the innings.Pakistan's One-Day International (ODI) skipper, Azhar Ali, outshone his teammates with a remarkable 266-ball 145, his second century on the tour.Veteran batsmen — Younis Khan and Misbah — followed suit, scored half-centuries.With three changes in the bowling line-up, Pakistan fancy defending their first innings lead.Pakistan will play England in four Tests, five ODIs, and a Twenty20 International in the two-month-long tour.


Australia's Marnus Labuschagne did not allow the disappointment of defeat to interfere with his appreciation of Babar Azam's sublime century, saying he learned from the Pakistan captain's masterclass in the second one-dayer on Thursday.
The elegant right-hander, ably supported by fellow centurion Imam-ul-Haq, scored his 15th ODI century in 83 innings, which is the fastest by any batsman.
“I enjoyed every minute of watching, it was a pity it was against us,” Labuschagne told reporters after their six-wicket defeat in Lahore.
“That was a very good innings. I sat back and I took some things on board for my own game to learn from that innings.
“To score 100 off 73 balls, he barely put a foot wrong. It was just phenomenal.” Labuschagne praised Imam as well but felt dismissing Babar early in Saturday's decider, also in Lahore, was crucial to clinch the series.
“I think if we can find a way to get him out early, put a bit more pressure on the middle to lower order, we have a chance,” the 27-year-old said.
“He batted us out of the game and fair play to him. It was a tremendous innings.” 
Ben McDermott smashed his maiden international century for Australia and Labuschagne, who made 59, was elated to be at the non-striker's end when his childhood friend brought up his hundred.
“We were best mates growing up in Australia. He was over at my house almost every second day, coming on the train home and we used to (play) in my backyard,” Labuschagne said.
“The hard work that he's putting in domestic cricket in the Big Bash and his four-day game as well has just come such a long way, and I was I was over the moon for him today.”

Australia's Marnus Labuschagne did not allow the disappointment of defeat to interfere with his appreciation of Babar Azam's sublime century, saying he learned from the Pakistan captain's masterclass in the second one-dayer on Thursday.The elegant right-hander, ably supported by fellow centurion Imam-ul-Haq, scored his 15th ODI century in 83 innings, which is the fastest by any batsman.“That was a very good innings.I sat back and I took some things on board for my own game to learn from that innings.“To score 100 off 73 balls, he barely put a foot wrong.“He batted us out of the game and fair play to him.“We were best mates growing up in Australia.“The hard work that he's putting in domestic cricket in the Big Bash and his four-day game as well has just come such a long way, and I was I was over the moon for him today.”


Mohammad Amir on Friday announced his retirement from Test cricket with immediate effect, but reaffirmed his commitment to playing white ball cricket for Pakistan.
 
The 27-year-old cricketer shared that he was considering retirement from the format "for some time", adding that it "has not been an easy decision to make".
"But with the ICC World Test Championship commencing shortly, and Pakistan boasting some very exciting young fast bowlers, it is appropriate that I call on my time in Test cricket so that the selectors can plan accordingly.
“I want to thank all my team-mates as well the opponents in red ball cricket. It has been a privilege to play with and against them. I am sure our paths will continue to cross in limited-overs cricket as all of us play and compete with the same vigour and determination."
Amir also thanked the PCB for providing him "the opportunity to don the golden star on my chest". 
"I am grateful to my coaches who have groomed me at various stages of my career,” said the bowler. 
Amir made his Test debut against Sri Lanka in Galle in July 2009. He featured in 36 Tests, taking 119 wickets at an average of 30.47. His best bowling returns — six for 44 — were against the West Indies in Kingston in April 2017.
In a statement issued by the board, PCB Managing Director Wasim Khan said: “Amir has been one of the most exciting and talented left-arm fast bowlers in Test cricket in recent times. He overcame adversity as a young cricketer and came back stronger not only as a cricketer but also as a better human being. 
"His skill, on the field, and his personality will be missed in the dressing room in the longer format. However, we respect his decision and look forward to him continuing to play an integral role in white ball cricket for Pakistan.”

Mohammad Amir on Friday announced his retirement from Test cricket with immediate effect, but reaffirmed his commitment to playing white ball cricket for Pakistan.The 27-year-old cricketer shared that he was considering retirement from the format "for some time", adding that it "has not been an easy decision to make".It has been a privilege to play with and against them.Amir also thanked the PCB for providing him "the opportunity to don the golden star on my chest"."I am grateful to my coaches who have groomed me at various stages of my career,” said the bowler.Amir made his Test debut against Sri Lanka in Galle in July 2009.He featured in 36 Tests, taking 119 wickets at an average of 30.47.His best bowling returns — six for 44 — were against the West Indies in Kingston in April 2017."His skill, on the field, and his personality will be missed in the dressing room in the longer format.


NEW DELHI: India’s former captain Virat Kohli reached out to  West Indies’ legendary former player Brian Lara to get batting tips after back-to-back flop innings and poor performances during the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL).
Kohli sought assistance from Lara, currently serving as the batting coach of Sunrisers Hyderabad, after being disappointed with his second Golden Duck dismissal in a row.
Virat Kohli has not smashed even a single half-century during the ongoing IPL.

NEW DELHI: India’s former captain Virat Kohli reached out to  West Indies’ legendary former player Brian Lara to get batting tips after back-to-back flop innings and poor performances during the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL).Virat Kohli has not smashed even a single half-century during the ongoing IPL.


MELBOURNE: Players from Afghanistan's national women's football team competed in a local league match in Australia on Sunday for the first time since fleeing the Taliban.
The result was a scoreless draw after an Afghan goal was disallowed for being offside in a lower league amateur match in the eastern state of Victoria.
But for the Afghan women it was a powerful, symbolic victory as they returned to the pitch together after leaving their homeland to rebuild their lives in Australia.
The game showed that the Taliban could not stop the players, said team captain Nilab, who like her teammates did not give a family name so as to protect relatives living in Afghanistan.
"We still continue our fight and our combat just to play for the Afghanistan people," she told AFP.
"We fled the country but we are still thinking of our country and we are still working for our victory for our country."
Australia helped dozens of Afghan national women's team players and their relatives to escape when the Taliban swept back to power eight months ago.
The Taliban have since severely curtailed the freedoms of women, banning girls' education and preventing women from even boarding planes without a male relative.
As players fled to different countries, the women's national team was fragmented.
- 'Together and powerful' -
But many settled in and around Melbourne, capital of the eastern state of Victoria, where professional A-League Women's side Melbourne Victory helped them to return to the field.
Goalkeeper Fatima said people who had seen social media images of Afghanistan after the Taliban's return could understand something of the courage required by players to leave their homes.
"They can understand how hard and how challenging that was for all of us to be in that situation," she told AFP.
"Today, we are playing as a team and together and powerful. It's incredible."
Team coach Jeff Hopkins praised their performance against amateur Melbourne side ETA Buffalo SC -- a club established in 1982 by friends who had migrated from East Timor -- in the Football Victoria State League 4 West competition.
"These young women, all they want to do is to be given the chance to just be treated equally, to be able to play the game they love," Hopkins told AFP.
"That obviously wasn't happening for them in Afghanistan -- they were being persecuted for it," he said.
A few days ahead of Sunday's match, Melbourne Victory presented the Afghan Women's Team with their new predominantly red kit, complete with shirts showing off the Afghan national flag.
The shirts are marked with numbers but no names for the safety of players' families in Afghanistan.

MELBOURNE: Players from Afghanistan's national women's football team competed in a local league match in Australia on Sunday for the first time since fleeing the Taliban.The game showed that the Taliban could not stop the players, said team captain Nilab, who like her teammates did not give a family name so as to protect relatives living in Afghanistan."We still continue our fight and our combat just to play for the Afghanistan people," she told AFP."We fled the country but we are still thinking of our country and we are still working for our victory for our country."As players fled to different countries, the women's national team was fragmented."They can understand how hard and how challenging that was for all of us to be in that situation," she told AFP."Today, we are playing as a team and together and powerful.It's incredible."Team coach Jeff Hopkins praised their performance against amateur Melbourne side ETA Buffalo SC -- a club established in 1982 by friends who had migrated from East Timor -- in the Football Victoria State League 4 West competition."These young women, all they want to do is to be given the chance to just be treated equally, to be able to play the game they love," Hopkins told AFP."That obviously wasn't happening for them in Afghanistan -- they were being persecuted for it," he said.The shirts are marked with numbers but no names for the safety of players' families in Afghanistan.


DERBY: In a major achievement, Shan Masood rewrote history with his dazzling performance on Friday becoming the first Pakistani to post two back-to-back double centuries in the English county championship.
The 32-year-old batter is representing county Derbyshire. He played a knock of 219 off 268 deliveries against Leicestershire on Friday to score his second consecutive double-century. In the previous match, he had scored 239 against Sussex.
Masood is the first Pakistani batter to score two double centuries in two consecutive innings in the county championship.
He is the 2nd Pakistani batter to do so in first-class cricket after Arshad Parvez, who had scored 243 (vs Baluchistan) and 236 (vs MCB) in BCCP Patron’s Trophy in 1978.
The last time any Asian batter was able to score back-to-back double centuries in the county championship was before partition, in 1933, when Nawab Iftikharuddin scored 231 and 224 in 1933 for Worcestershire.
Masood was overlooked for Test matches against Australia. However, he has proved to be in the best form of his life by amassing overall 611 runs in just four innings he has played in the county championship this season.

DERBY: In a major achievement, Shan Masood rewrote history with his dazzling performance on Friday becoming the first Pakistani to post two back-to-back double centuries in the English county championship.The 32-year-old batter is representing county Derbyshire.He played a knock of 219 off 268 deliveries against Leicestershire on Friday to score his second consecutive double-century.In the previous match, he had scored 239 against Sussex.He is the 2nd Pakistani batter to do so in first-class cricket after Arshad Parvez, who had scored 243 (vs Baluchistan) and 236 (vs MCB) in BCCP Patron’s Trophy in 1978.Masood was overlooked for Test matches against Australia.


WELLINGTON: Former All Blacks coach Wayne Smith was appointed Thursday to head a new set-up for the New Zealand women's team following a damning review into the way the side had been handled.
The review into the team culture found members of the Black Ferns had been subjected to culturally insensitive comments, alleged favouritism and body-shaming from coaches.
It led to the resignation last week of head coach Glenn Moore, less than six months from the Women's World Cup, which will be hosted by defending champions New Zealand.
Smith, known in rugby circles as "the professor" because of his deep knowledge of the game, moves into the role of director of rugby for the women's side.
The 65-year-old will head a new coaching structure through to the World Cup in October-November, New Zealand Rugby chief executive Mark Robinson said.
"There is no questioning Wayne's calibre as a coach and what he will bring to this team. We know he is excited to be involved in the Black Ferns and about what they can build this year," Robinson said.
Smith will be assisted by Whitney Hansen, who has had an intern coaching role with the team for the past two years, and Wesley Clarke.
Men's World Cup-winning coach Graham Henry will join in a support role while specialists including former All Blacks forwards coach Mike Cron will also prepare the side.
"Wes has been a long-standing member of the Black Ferns coaching team, his insight and experience is invaluable," said Robinson.
"Whitney is a coach with a big future, she has impressed in her two years within the team so this is a great recognition of her ability and potential."
Moore, who steered the team to the 2017 world crown, was under intense pressure to quit after the review found that Black Ferns players had been badly served by both team management and New Zealand Rugby.
The review was launched after hooker Te Kura Ngata-Aerengamate went public with her complaints that she suffered a mental breakdown because of critical comments made by Moore.
She alleged Moore had told her she did not deserve to be on the team and was "picked only to play the guitar".

It led to the resignation last week of head coach Glenn Moore, less than six months from the Women's World Cup, which will be hosted by defending champions New Zealand.Smith, known in rugby circles as "the professor" because of his deep knowledge of the game, moves into the role of director of rugby for the women's side."There is no questioning Wayne's calibre as a coach and what he will bring to this team.We know he is excited to be involved in the Black Ferns and about what they can build this year," Robinson said.Smith will be assisted by Whitney Hansen, who has had an intern coaching role with the team for the past two years, and Wesley Clarke."Whitney is a coach with a big future, she has impressed in her two years within the team so this is a great recognition of her ability and potential."Moore, who steered the team to the 2017 world crown, was under intense pressure to quit after the review found that Black Ferns players had been badly served by both team management and New Zealand Rugby.The review was launched after hooker Te Kura Ngata-Aerengamate went public with her complaints that she suffered a mental breakdown because of critical comments made by Moore.She alleged Moore had told her she did not deserve to be on the team and was "picked only to play the guitar".


LONDON: Men's tennis world number two Daniil Medvedev is set to be barred from this year's Wimbledon Grand Slam tournament as The Times reported organisers are to ban Russian and Belarus players due to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.
Russian and Belarusian players have been able to continue to compete in ATP and WTA events under a neutral flag since Russia invaded Ukraine on February 24.
It was believed this would extend to the three remaining Grand Slam events -- though the ITF banned both countries' teams from the Davis Cup and the Billie Jean King Cup.
However, The Times says sources have told them that after almost two months of talks Wimbledon organisers prefer to ban the players rather than adhere to a compromise solution offered by the British government.
That would have seen the likes of Medvedev and last year's Wimbledon women's singles semi-finalist Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus sign statements that they would not make supportive comments of Russian President Vladimir Putin or the war.
Wimbledon organisers believe signing such statements could impact negatively on the families of the players.
The BBC reported that confirmation of the decision is to come later on Wednesday.
'Stop the war'
The Kremlin reacted angrily to the reports, deeming them "unacceptable".
"Once again they simply turn athletes into hostages to political prejudice, political intrigues," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. "This is unacceptable."
"Taking into account that Russia is a very strong tennis country, our athletes are at the top of world rankings, the competition itself will suffer from their removal," he added.
It is likely that this ban will apply to all British grass-court tournaments this summer.
The Lawn Tennis Association (LTA), which oversees key Wimbledon warm-up tournaments such as Queen's and Eastbourne, said last week they would follow Wimbledon's lead.
"We think from a public perspective and indeed a practical implementation perspective that there needs to be alignment [between the All England Club and LTA], so it is really clear and understood," said LTA chief executive Scott Lloyd.
"That is critically important."
Russian and Belarus players have been muted in their condemnation of the war though men's world number eight Andrey Rublev did scrawl 'no war please' on a TV camera when competing in Dubai just after the invasion took place.
Medvedev — presently recuperating after a hernia operation -- restricted himself to saying "I want peace in all of the world."
However, Russia's top female player Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova was more forthright.
"Stop the war, stop the violence," she tweeted in March.
"I am not afraid to clearly state my position. I am against war and violence."
Belarusian tennis star Victoria Azarenka, a former world number one and two-time Grand Slam title winner, was also outspoken.
"It is heartbreaking to see how many innocent people have been affected and continue to be affected by such violence," the 32-year-old said in March.
"I have always seen and experienced Ukrainian and Belarusian people friendly and supportive of each other. It's hard to witness the violent separation currently taking place."
Belarus is seen as an ally of Russia and facilitated the invasion by allowing troops to cross over their border into Ukraine.

LONDON: Men's tennis world number two Daniil Medvedev is set to be barred from this year's Wimbledon Grand Slam tournament as The Times reported organisers are to ban Russian and Belarus players due to Russia's invasion of Ukraine.That would have seen the likes of Medvedev and last year's Wimbledon women's singles semi-finalist Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus sign statements that they would not make supportive comments of Russian President Vladimir Putin or the war.Wimbledon organisers believe signing such statements could impact negatively on the families of the players.The BBC reported that confirmation of the decision is to come later on Wednesday.'Stop the war'
The Kremlin reacted angrily to the reports, deeming them "unacceptable"."This is unacceptable."It is likely that this ban will apply to all British grass-court tournaments this summer."That is critically important."Medvedev — presently recuperating after a hernia operation -- restricted himself to saying "I want peace in all of the world."However, Russia's top female player Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova was more forthright."Stop the war, stop the violence," she tweeted in March."I am not afraid to clearly state my position.I am against war and violence.""It is heartbreaking to see how many innocent people have been affected and continue to be affected by such violence," the 32-year-old said in March."I have always seen and experienced Ukrainian and Belarusian people friendly and supportive of each other.It's hard to witness the violent separation currently taking place."


AHMEDABAD: Reacting to India-Pakistan cricket relations, legendary former cricketer Kapil Dev said that national interest is of foremost importance, adding that we should let the government decide on the cricket series between the two countries.
“Only they can decide,” he said, adding that the country’s policy is more important. India’s legendary former cricketer said that as citizens, they should stand with their government’s policy. 
Responding to a question, he said, “The Indian cricket board has placed a lot of importance on the infrastructure. This has been hugely beneficial to the young cricketers. The board has given facilities to players.”  

AHMEDABAD: Reacting to India-Pakistan cricket relations, legendary former cricketer Kapil Dev said that national interest is of foremost importance, adding that we should let the government decide on the cricket series between the two countries.“Only they can decide,” he said, adding that the country’s policy is more important.This has been hugely beneficial to the young cricketers.The board has given facilities to players.”


LOG ANGELES: Jamaica's two-time Olympic gold medallist Elaine Thompson-Herah clocked the fastest 100m in the world this year at 10.89sec at the Golden Games at Walnut, California.
Thompson-Herah, running her first outdoor 100m of the season, won her semi-final heat in the meeting east of Los Angeles with a favorable wind of 1.6 meters per second.
She opted out of the final, which was won by American Twanisha Terry in a wind-aided 10.77sec. Americans Aleia Hobbs and Gabby Thomas were second and third in the final, run in a favorable wind of 3.3 m/sec.
Thomas, the Olympic 200m bronze medallist, notched the fastest time of the season in her preferred distance, winning in 22.02sec ahead of 2019 World silver medallist Brittany Brown.
Fred Kerley, silver medallist in the 100m at the Tokyo Games, won the men's 200m in 19.80sec ahead of fellow American Michael Norman (19.83).
World 100m champion Christian Coleman, who is making his return to competition this season after an 18-month suspension for failing to comply with his anti-doping obligations, was announced at the start of the 200m but did not run it.
American Micah Williams won the men's 100m in a wind-aided 9.83sec.
Tonea Marshall (12.46) beat Olympic silver medallist Keni Harrison (12.56) in the 100m hurdles. Only Puerto Rican Jasmine Camacho-Quinn, the defending Olympic champion, has run faster this year.
Michael Cherry, who won Olympic 4x400m relay gold in Tokyo, ran the fastest 400m of the year in 44.28sec.

Thompson-Herah, running her first outdoor 100m of the season, won her semi-final heat in the meeting east of Los Angeles with a favorable wind of 1.6 meters per second.She opted out of the final, which was won by American Twanisha Terry in a wind-aided 10.77sec.Thomas, the Olympic 200m bronze medallist, notched the fastest time of the season in her preferred distance, winning in 22.02sec ahead of 2019 World silver medallist Brittany Brown.American Micah Williams won the men's 100m in a wind-aided 9.83sec.Tonea Marshall (12.46) beat Olympic silver medallist Keni Harrison (12.56) in the 100m hurdles.Only Puerto Rican Jasmine Camacho-Quinn, the defending Olympic champion, has run faster this year.Michael Cherry, who won Olympic 4x400m relay gold in Tokyo, ran the fastest 400m of the year in 44.28sec.


LONDON: Joe Root is stepping down as England’s Test captain, the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) announced on Friday.
Root’s decision comes after the 1-0 Test series defeat to West Indies last month, and a 4-0 Ashes loss to Australia.
"After returning from the Caribbean tour and having time to reflect, I have decided to step down as England men’s Test captain," Root said.
"It has been the most challenging decision I have had to make in my career but having discussed this with my family and those closest to me, I know the timing is right.
"I am immensely proud to have captained my country and will look back on the past five years with enormous pride. It has been an honour to have done the job and to have been a custodian of what is the pinnacle of English cricket."
Root, 31, holds the record for the highest number of wins as England’s Test captain, his 27 putting him one ahead of Michael Vaughan and three ahead of Alastair Cook and Andrew Strauss.
But the past 12 months have been dismal. After winning their opening three Tests of 2021, England have won just one since, losing 11 and drawing five of their past 17.
ECB chief executive officer Tom Harrison said: "Joe has been an exceptional role model during his tenure, balancing the demands of Test captaincy whilst continuing to shine brilliantly through his own personal performances.
"He has led by example, and that has resulted in more Test wins than any other England captain, alongside a number of famous series home and away victories."

Root’s decision comes after the 1-0 Test series defeat to West Indies last month, and a 4-0 Ashes loss to Australia."After returning from the Caribbean tour and having time to reflect, I have decided to step down as England men’s Test captain," Root said."It has been the most challenging decision I have had to make in my career but having discussed this with my family and those closest to me, I know the timing is right."I am immensely proud to have captained my country and will look back on the past five years with enormous pride.It has been an honour to have done the job and to have been a custodian of what is the pinnacle of English cricket."But the past 12 months have been dismal.After winning their opening three Tests of 2021, England have won just one since, losing 11 and drawing five of their past 17.


KARACHI: Pakistan Test opener Shan Masood has shown his elegance during the English season, helping his side Derbyshire stand out compared to other teams.
After stellar performances on the national domestic circuit as well as in the Pakistan Super League (PSL), the left-handed batter has made his presence felt in the LV=Insurance County Championship Division Two match in recent days.
Playing against Sussex, Shan hit his maiden double ton at the county level. He played a series of fluent strokes to reach the milestone.
“I think we were brave to bat first, Derby always has something for the bowlers and the onus was on us after the last game at Lord's where we had a few decent starts,” the left-handed batter said.
Shan, who is playing for the first time in county cricket, was also outstanding with the bat in his debut game where he posted scores of 91 and 62. He is currently the top scorer in the LV=Insurance County Championship Division Two match this season.
Despite his heroics with the bat, Pakistan’s selectors continue to ignore him. Shan has been overlooked since his failure in the away series against New Zealand in 2020-21.
Shan’s last appearance for Pakistan was in the Christchurch Test against New Zealand in January last year. Since then he has scored prolifically in all formats of the game but is yet to make his return to national duty.

After stellar performances on the national domestic circuit as well as in the Pakistan Super League (PSL), the left-handed batter has made his presence felt in the LV=Insurance County Championship Division Two match in recent days.Playing against Sussex, Shan hit his maiden double ton at the county level.He played a series of fluent strokes to reach the milestone.Despite his heroics with the bat, Pakistan’s selectors continue to ignore him.Shan has been overlooked since his failure in the away series against New Zealand in 2020-21.Shan’s last appearance for Pakistan was in the Christchurch Test against New Zealand in January last year.Since then he has scored prolifically in all formats of the game but is yet to make his return to national duty.


PESHAWAR: National cricketer Fakhar Zaman was one of those hundreds of commuters Wednesday who got stuck in a traffic jam due to a PTI rally in the provincial capital.
The issue came to light when journalist Ihtisham Ul Haq took to Twitter and said: “There was another Cricketer who was stuck in the traffic on his way back from the practice. He told me, it took him hours to cover 200 meters distance. Guess who?”
To this, Fakhar Zaman responded, sharing his picture sitting inside his car during the traffic jam.
He said, “brother I was the one.”
It is pertinent to mention that the PTI staged the protest rally in Peshawar on Wendesday, addressed by former prime minister Imran Khan.
The PTI has announced to hold rallies across the country to protest against the ouster of the Imran Khan-led government.

PESHAWAR: National cricketer Fakhar Zaman was one of those hundreds of commuters Wednesday who got stuck in a traffic jam due to a PTI rally in the provincial capital.He told me, it took him hours to cover 200 meters distance.Guess who?”
To this, Fakhar Zaman responded, sharing his picture sitting inside his car during the traffic jam.The PTI has announced to hold rallies across the country to protest against the ouster of the Imran Khan-led government.


NEW YORK: The Seattle Sounders withstood a furious rally by New York City FC to draw 1-1 and seal a 4-2 aggregate victory to reach the final of the CONCACAF Champions League for the first time in the club's history on Wednesday.
Seattle will face Mexico's Pumas UNAM in the final of the tournament, the premier club competition for teams from Central America, North America and the Caribbean.
The Sounders, leading 3-1 after last week's home leg, looked to be cruising towards a comfortable win after Peruvian international Raul Ruidiaz fired them into a 1-0 lead on 28 minutes at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, New Jersey.
But Uruguayan midfielder Santiago Rodriguez leveled for New York in the 51st minute to kickstart a frenetic second half, as City chased the two goals needed to level the tie on aggregate.
It seemed only a matter of time before City would score as the reigning Major League Soccer champions launched wave after wave of attacks on the Seattle goal.
But a combination of poor finishing and superb goalkeeping from Seattle's Swiss stopper Stefan Frei frustrated New York's hopes of turning the semi-final around.
Frei rescued Seattle three times in the space of 10 minutes as New York pressed for a second goal.
The Sounders goalkeeper saved a header from Thiago Martins on 63 minutes and then five minutes later tipped over the bar when highly rated Brazilian teenager Talles Magno shot on the turn from close range.
Magno then squandered a golden chance to put New York 2-1 ahead on 73 minutes when forward Valentin Castellanos burst into space down the right hand side.
The Argentine striker squared unselfishly for Magno in space, but with the whole goal to aim at, the 19-year-old shot at Frei, who parried away.
Frei made another fine save two minutes from time, diving at full stretch to turn a Castellanos header around the post.
The Sounders will be looking to end nearly two decades of unbroken dominance of the CONCACAF Champions League by Mexican clubs in the final later this month.
The last Major League Soccer club to lift the title were the Los Angeles Galaxy in 2000.

NEW YORK: The Seattle Sounders withstood a furious rally by New York City FC to draw 1-1 and seal a 4-2 aggregate victory to reach the final of the CONCACAF Champions League for the first time in the club's history on Wednesday.Seattle will face Mexico's Pumas UNAM in the final of the tournament, the premier club competition for teams from Central America, North America and the Caribbean.But Uruguayan midfielder Santiago Rodriguez leveled for New York in the 51st minute to kickstart a frenetic second half, as City chased the two goals needed to level the tie on aggregate.It seemed only a matter of time before City would score as the reigning Major League Soccer champions launched wave after wave of attacks on the Seattle goal.Frei rescued Seattle three times in the space of 10 minutes as New York pressed for a second goal.The Sounders goalkeeper saved a header from Thiago Martins on 63 minutes and then five minutes later tipped over the bar when highly rated Brazilian teenager Talles Magno shot on the turn from close range.The Argentine striker squared unselfishly for Magno in space, but with the whole goal to aim at, the 19-year-old shot at Frei, who parried away.The last Major League Soccer club to lift the title were the Los Angeles Galaxy in 2000.


SYDNEY: Australia's top cricket body appointed Andrew McDonald as national coach on Wednesday, two months after the shock departure of Justin Langer.
McDonald, 40, secured a four-year contract in the top position after winning praise for his performance as interim coach since Langer´s abrupt resignation on February 5 shook the cricket world.
He is taking on one of the highest-profile jobs in Australia, where cricket is an essential part of the country´s identity and the team´s exploits grip much of the nation.
"I am honoured to be given this incredible opportunity for what is an exciting period ahead," McDonald said after being confirmed in the job by Cricket Australia.
"My plan is to build on the growth, depth and experience of the squad while working collectively with the group and across the game," he said in a statement.
Langer left after failing to win the public support of key players including captain Pat Cummins, despite guiding Australia to a 4-0 Ashes victory over archrivals England and a maiden T20 World Cup title.
Langer was also credited with overhauling a toxic Australian cricketing culture that led to the 2018 "Sandpaper-gate" ball-tampering scandal.
In the run-up to Langer´s departure, disgruntled players had complained anonymously to Australian media about his intense coaching style.
By contrast, limited overs captain Aaron Finch praised former Test allrounder McDonald´s "calm approach" in the interim job.
´Fantastic job´
"He never seems to get flustered by any situation or result -- it´s all about the process and making sure your preparation and attention to detail is 100 percent," Finch told reporters shortly after McDonald took over.
Cricket Australia said McDonald will be head coach in all formats but some white ball series may be led by an assistant to alleviate the "significant workload ahead".
"I think he will do a fantastic job," former Australia Test captain Michael Clarke said Tuesday on the eve of McDonald´s widely anticipated appointment.
He warned, however, that Australia would be under pressure to perform with McDonald, who had been an assistant to Langer since 2019.
"To me, it looks like this is exactly what the players want, which puts extra pressure on them if they don´t perform," Clarke said in an interview with Sky Sports Radio.
As captain, Cummins in particular would face "extreme pressure", Clarke predicted.
"He´s had Justin Langer sacked, pretty much... he´s come out and said this is what the players wanted," Clarke said.
Cummins has denied that a player revolt was behind Langer´s resignation, saying he had tried to show respect for "proper process" by not intervening publicly to support or criticise him.
McDonald, who has red hair and was inevitably nicknamed Ronnie, played four Tests for Australia with his biggest knock a 68 against South Africa.
A right-arm fast-medium bowler and handy right-handed batter, he also played for Victoria and South Australia before turning to coaching, starting as head coach with Leicestershire in 2014.

McDonald, 40, secured a four-year contract in the top position after winning praise for his performance as interim coach since Langer´s abrupt resignation on February 5 shook the cricket world."I am honoured to be given this incredible opportunity for what is an exciting period ahead," McDonald said after being confirmed in the job by Cricket Australia."My plan is to build on the growth, depth and experience of the squad while working collectively with the group and across the game," he said in a statement.Langer left after failing to win the public support of key players including captain Pat Cummins, despite guiding Australia to a 4-0 Ashes victory over archrivals England and a maiden T20 World Cup title.Langer was also credited with overhauling a toxic Australian cricketing culture that led to the 2018 "Sandpaper-gate" ball-tampering scandal.In the run-up to Langer´s departure, disgruntled players had complained anonymously to Australian media about his intense coaching style.By contrast, limited overs captain Aaron Finch praised former Test allrounder McDonald´s "calm approach" in the interim job.´Fantastic job´
"He never seems to get flustered by any situation or result -- it´s all about the process and making sure your preparation and attention to detail is 100 percent," Finch told reporters shortly after McDonald took over."I think he will do a fantastic job," former Australia Test captain Michael Clarke said Tuesday on the eve of McDonald´s widely anticipated appointment.As captain, Cummins in particular would face "extreme pressure", Clarke predicted."He´s had Justin Langer sacked, pretty much... he´s come out and said this is what the players wanted," Clarke said.McDonald, who has red hair and was inevitably nicknamed Ronnie, played four Tests for Australia with his biggest knock a 68 against South Africa.


ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) Chairman Ramiz Raja, who has close relations with former prime minister Imran Khan, has decided not to resign from his post, despite a change in the federal government, said sources on Tuesday. 
The sources privy to the matter said that Ramiz Raja is waiting for a message from the new government and will continue to hold the position till then.
They further reported that in case Ramiz Raja resigns from his post, former PCB chairman Najam Sethi’s name will be considered for the coveted slot. 
According to PCB's constitution, its patron-in-chief (Pakistan's PM) recommends the chairman's name to the board of governors, who vote for the candidate.
However, over the years, the PCB chairman changes with a change in the federal government.
In 2018, when Imran Khan made his government, then PCB chairman Najam Sethi was replaced by Ehsan Mani immediately.

ISLAMABAD: Pakistan Cricket Board (PCB) Chairman Ramiz Raja, who has close relations with former prime minister Imran Khan, has decided not to resign from his post, despite a change in the federal government, said sources on Tuesday.The sources privy to the matter said that Ramiz Raja is waiting for a message from the new government and will continue to hold the position till then.However, over the years, the PCB chairman changes with a change in the federal government.In 2018, when Imran Khan made his government, then PCB chairman Najam Sethi was replaced by Ehsan Mani immediately.


DHAKA: Bangladesh pace bowler Khaled Ahmed has been fined for throwing a ball at a South African batsman during the second Test in Gqeberha, the International Cricket Council said Tuesday.
The incident happened in the 95th over of South Africa's first innings on Saturday when Kyle Verreynne hit the ball back towards Khaled.
The bowler then threw it towards Verreynne in an inappropriate and dangerous manner, hitting him on the right glove, the ICC said.
The fine accounts for 15% of Khaled's match fee.
Khaled admitted the offence and accepted the sanction, avoiding the need for a formal hearing, the ICC said.
The hosts won the Test by 332 runs inside four days for a 2-0 sweep of the series.
Khaled was one of the very few shining lights for Bangladesh in South Africa, picking up eight wickets across the two Tests at an average of 32.87.

DHAKA: Bangladesh pace bowler Khaled Ahmed has been fined for throwing a ball at a South African batsman during the second Test in Gqeberha, the International Cricket Council said Tuesday.The bowler then threw it towards Verreynne in an inappropriate and dangerous manner, hitting him on the right glove, the ICC said.The fine accounts for 15% of Khaled's match fee.Khaled admitted the offence and accepted the sanction, avoiding the need for a formal hearing, the ICC said.The hosts won the Test by 332 runs inside four days for a 2-0 sweep of the series.


DUBAI: Pakistan captain Babar Azam has been voted the ICC Player of the Month for March 2022 on the back of his excellent performance during the Australian series.
He defeated West Indies captain Kraigg Brathwaite and Australia skipper Pat Cummins for the coveted monthly award.
The star batter was at his brilliant best throughout March, with his superb 196 in the second Test against Australia in Karachi and becomes the first player to win the ICC Men’s Player of the Month award on two occasions, having won the title in April 2021.
The Pakistani skipper continued his outstanding form in the ODI series, playing vital knocks in the first two games. In the first ODI, he notched up a score of 57 in Pakistan's 88-run loss before scoring a brilliant 118 to lead Pakistan to a six-wicket win in the second contest.
"Babar Azam wins this award not only because of his significant glut of runs scored during the Pakistan v Australia tour, he was able to transition success with the bat across formats, from the Test Series into ODIs," said former West Indies star and member of the voting panel Daren Ganga. 
"Significantly, him being able to fulfil the burden of expectation as a captain and batsman for Pakistan being host to an Australian team visiting after 24 years is a monumental achievement." 

He defeated West Indies captain Kraigg Brathwaite and Australia skipper Pat Cummins for the coveted monthly award.The Pakistani skipper continued his outstanding form in the ODI series, playing vital knocks in the first two games.In the first ODI, he notched up a score of 57 in Pakistan's 88-run loss before scoring a brilliant 118 to lead Pakistan to a six-wicket win in the second contest."Babar Azam wins this award not only because of his significant glut of runs scored during the Pakistan v Australia tour, he was able to transition success with the bat across formats, from the Test Series into ODIs," said former West Indies star and member of the voting panel Daren Ganga."Significantly, him being able to fulfil the burden of expectation as a captain and batsman for Pakistan being host to an Australian team visiting after 24 years is a monumental achievement."


SUNCHEON: An Se-young clinched victory at the Korea Open Badminton Championships on Sunday, becoming the first home player to win the women's singles at the event in seven years.
The 20-year-old defeated Thailand's unseeded Pornpawee Chochuwong 21-17, 21-18 in a tightly fought final in Suncheon.
"After the tie, I could see Chochuwong had reached her physical limit," An said after the match, according to Yonhap news agency.
"I sensed it was my chance and created situations so Chochuwong had to run a little more."
She said she had never lost against Chochuwong, but added: "I feel the pressure to beat her again, so she's not a comfortable opponent."
"I analyse and study my opponent before going to bed the night before the game," An said. "I think it paid off this time."
The last time a home player won the women's singles at the Korea Open was Sung Ji-hyun in 2015, though the annual event has been cancelled for the last two years because of the coronavirus pandemic.
In a rollercoaster men's final, Weng Hongyang of China beat Indonesia's third seed Jonatan Christie 12-21, 21-19, 21-15 to claim the title.
Christie — ranked eighth in the world and 148 places above Weng — powered through the opener with his searing smashes.
But Weng forced a third game and came out as the ultimate winner.

SUNCHEON: An Se-young clinched victory at the Korea Open Badminton Championships on Sunday, becoming the first home player to win the women's singles at the event in seven years.The 20-year-old defeated Thailand's unseeded Pornpawee Chochuwong 21-17, 21-18 in a tightly fought final in Suncheon."I sensed it was my chance and created situations so Chochuwong had to run a little more.""I analyse and study my opponent before going to bed the night before the game," An said."I think it paid off this time."Christie — ranked eighth in the world and 148 places above Weng — powered through the opener with his searing smashes.But Weng forced a third game and came out as the ultimate winner.


NEW DELHI: Indian bowler Yuzvendra Chahal says he was dangled from a 15th-floor hotel balcony by a heavily drunk fellow player during the Indian Premier League in 2013.
The incident happened during a get-together when the leg-spinner, who has played 61 one-day internationals for India, was a part of the Mumbai Indians franchise.
Chahal previously alleged that he was also bullied by Mumbai teammates in 2011 when he was an up-and-coming talent.
"So there was a player who was very drunk — and I won't take his name —he was very drunk, he just called me aside and he took me outside and he hung me out from the balcony," Chahal, now 31, said in a video posted Thursday by his current IPL team Rajasthan Royals.
"I was holding on to him, with my arms around his neck. If I had lost my grip, we were on the 15th floor... had there been a small mistake there, I would have fallen down," he said.
Chahal said he was saved by people who rushed to his rescue.
"I kind of fainted and they gave me water. Then I realised how responsible we need to be when we go anywhere," said the bowler, who was chatting in the video to fellow spinner Ravichandran Ashwin about tricky off-field situations.
Former India all-rounder and coach Ravi Shastri said the incident must not be taken lightly and called for players to be banned from the game if they commit such an offence.
"If such an incident happens today, (give) a life ban for that person involved and send that person to a rehab centre as quickly as possible."
Chahal had alleged in a podcast earlier this year that, in another incident, his then Mumbai teammates James Franklin and Andrew Symonds tied him up, taped his mouth and left him in a room and forgot about him in 2011.

The incident happened during a get-together when the leg-spinner, who has played 61 one-day internationals for India, was a part of the Mumbai Indians franchise.Chahal previously alleged that he was also bullied by Mumbai teammates in 2011 when he was an up-and-coming talent."So there was a player who was very drunk — and I won't take his name —he was very drunk, he just called me aside and he took me outside and he hung me out from the balcony," Chahal, now 31, said in a video posted Thursday by his current IPL team Rajasthan Royals."I was holding on to him, with my arms around his neck.If I had lost my grip, we were on the 15th floor... had there been a small mistake there, I would have fallen down," he said.Chahal said he was saved by people who rushed to his rescue."I kind of fainted and they gave me water."If such an incident happens today, (give) a life ban for that person involved and send that person to a rehab centre as quickly as possible."


PORT ELIZABETH: South African Test captain Dean Elgar on Thursday defended his team against allegations of "unbearable sledging" during the first Test against Bangladesh in Durban.
He said the Bangladesh players needed to "harden up" if they wanted to play the game at a high level.
Speaking ahead of the second Test, which starts at St George's Park on Friday, Elgar said South Africa played the game hard but stopped short of swearing or using foul language towards their opponents.
Bangladesh cricket operations chief Jalal Yunus said on Tuesday that his board would make an official complaint to the International Cricket Council about what he described as biased umpiring and the "sledging" of the home team.
"I don't think they are justified whatsoever," said Elgar. "We play the game hard (but) if anything we were just giving back what we were getting when we were batting.
"This is Test cricket. It's a man's environment when it comes to playing at this level and I intend still to play the game hard.
"We don't swear or use foul language towards the Bangladesh batsmen because we still respect them. I think they need to harden up and maybe play the game at a level they're not used to," said Elgar.
The South African captain said the message to his players was: "We do everything with dignity and we don't throw our badge or our name away.
"I honestly didn't see any bad sledging out there, even from their side. I just think this is Test cricket and we need to dry our eyes sometimes."
The umpiring in Durban was in the spotlight with an unusually high number of 21 reviews - 11 by Bangladesh and 10 by South Africa - with four reviews upheld for each team.
South Africans Marais Erasmus and Adrian Holdstock were the men in charge under the ICC's coronavirus restrictions, leading the Bangladeshis to call for neutral umpires.
"The umpiring was tough," said Elgar. "I don't think the wicket helped. There was variable bounce which can challenge the umpires.
"I feel for them because they are good umpires. The human factor needs to be spoken of, they do make errors, as do the players, but I'm pretty sure they're going to learn a lot out of that.
"The umpires make decisions and we need to respect that. The technology is there for a reason. If you don't use the technology you're kind of holding yourself accountable for their decisions as well."
Elgar appeared at the online press conference with bruising on his face and stitches above his right eye. He said it was the result of slipping in the shower in Durban on Monday night.
"I've got a few stitches in my forehead," he said. "I batted today, it was going to be a concern with where my helmet rests. I don't think I'm too far from where the doctor takes the stitches out. But I'm okay."

Speaking ahead of the second Test, which starts at St George's Park on Friday, Elgar said South Africa played the game hard but stopped short of swearing or using foul language towards their opponents."This is Test cricket."We don't swear or use foul language towards the Bangladesh batsmen because we still respect them.I think they need to harden up and maybe play the game at a level they're not used to," said Elgar."I honestly didn't see any bad sledging out there, even from their side.I just think this is Test cricket and we need to dry our eyes sometimes.""The umpiring was tough," said Elgar."I don't think the wicket helped.There was variable bounce which can challenge the umpires."I feel for them because they are good umpires."The umpires make decisions and we need to respect that.The technology is there for a reason.If you don't use the technology you're kind of holding yourself accountable for their decisions as well."He said it was the result of slipping in the shower in Durban on Monday night."I've got a few stitches in my forehead," he said."I batted today, it was going to be a concern with where my helmet rests.I don't think I'm too far from where the doctor takes the stitches out.But I'm okay."


NEW YORK: The jersey worn by Diego Maradona when he scored twice against England in the 1986 World Cup, including the infamous "hand of God" goal, is to be auctioned off this month, Sotheby’s announced Wednesday.
The blue number 10 shirt has been owned since the end of the controversial World Cup encounter by opposing midfielder Steve Hodge, who swapped his jersey with Maradona after England lost 2-1.
The quarter-final showdown, one of the most memorable in World Cup history, held particular significance for Argentina as it was played only four years after they lost the Falklands war.
The match became etched in football folklore for Maradona’s two goals — one notorious and one sublime — in Mexico City’s seething Aztec Stadium.
The first came shortly after half-time when Hodge, on the edge of the England penalty area, intercepted a pass and flicked the ball back towards goal.
Maradona, running into the box, rose with England’s goalkeeper Peter Shilton and punched the ball into the net.
England were incensed and complained to officials who, believing Maradona had headed the ball, allowed the goal to stand.
Maradona stirred the controversy afterwards by saying the goal had been scored "a little with the head of Maradona, a little with the hand of God."
Four minutes later, Maradona struck again and this time there was no doubt.
Receiving the ball and turning inside his own half, Maradona left five English defenders in his wake before gliding past Shilton and slotting home for a strike that was voted "Goal of the Century" in a 2002 FIFA poll.
National hero
Argentina won the final to lift the World Cup for the second time in eight years and Maradona, already a superstar, became worshipped in his home country.
After his death from a heart attack in 2020, Argentina held three days of national mourning.
Hodge, whose autobiography is titled "The man with Maradona’s shirt," has for the past 20 years loaned the jersey to be on public display at the National Football Museum in Manchester.
Sotheby’s said in a statement to AFP that it will hold its own public display for the jersey in London, during the online auction scheduled for April 20 to May 4.
The decision of whether to keep it accessible to the public will be up to the winning bidder.
Oscar Garre, a team mate of Maradona in 1986, told AFP on Wednesday "it would be nice to have it (the jersey) in Argentina", particularly at the Argentine Football Association (AFA).
"While many guys have worn the jersey of the national team with much courage, honor and respect, the one of Diego is unique, the most emblematic that football ever had," he said.
Brahm Wachter, Sotheby’s head of street wear and modern collectibles, said "the list is long for the type of people or organizations that might want to own the item."
"It could be an individual, it could be a museum, it could be just somebody who wants to own the best of the best, a football lover or a club."
Bidding for the Maradona memorabilia will start at Â£4 million ($5.2 million), below the $5.6 million record for game-worn shirts, set in 2019 for a jersey Babe Ruth wore while on the New York Yankees.
Last year, a jersey worn in the 1950s by Brooklyn Dodgers star Jackie Robinson — the first Black player in Major League Baseball — sold for $4.2 million.

The blue number 10 shirt has been owned since the end of the controversial World Cup encounter by opposing midfielder Steve Hodge, who swapped his jersey with Maradona after England lost 2-1.The quarter-final showdown, one of the most memorable in World Cup history, held particular significance for Argentina as it was played only four years after they lost the Falklands war.The match became etched in football folklore for Maradona’s two goals — one notorious and one sublime — in Mexico City’s seething Aztec Stadium.Maradona, running into the box, rose with England’s goalkeeper Peter Shilton and punched the ball into the net.England were incensed and complained to officials who, believing Maradona had headed the ball, allowed the goal to stand.Maradona stirred the controversy afterwards by saying the goal had been scored "a little with the head of Maradona, a little with the hand of God."Four minutes later, Maradona struck again and this time there was no doubt.After his death from a heart attack in 2020, Argentina held three days of national mourning.Sotheby’s said in a statement to AFP that it will hold its own public display for the jersey in London, during the online auction scheduled for April 20 to May 4.The decision of whether to keep it accessible to the public will be up to the winning bidder."While many guys have worn the jersey of the national team with much courage, honor and respect, the one of Diego is unique, the most emblematic that football ever had," he said."It could be an individual, it could be a museum, it could be just somebody who wants to own the best of the best, a football lover or a club."Bidding for the Maradona memorabilia will start at Â£4 million ($5.2 million), below the $5.6 million record for game-worn shirts, set in 2019 for a jersey Babe Ruth wore while on the New York Yankees.


Pakistani pacer Hassan Ali’s lack of form has angered cricket lovers who have blasted the bowler for his poor performance during the historic Australian tour.
The Aussies punished Hassan Ali in the last T20 played on Wednesday at the Gaddafi Stadium. He conceded 30 runs in his three overs triggering a backlash on social media.
His inclusion in the national team remained under criticism as the pacer hasn't been in good form since T20 World Cup 2021. 
During the Australian tour, Hassan Ali played two Tests in which he bowled 63 overs and could only bag two wickets with an economy rate of 3.04 while he played a single ODI out of three and gave away 56 runs in eight overs with an economy rate of 7.0.
Not only the fans, former cricketers have also criticised the pacer and the selectors for including him and not giving him a break to regain form.
Waqar Younus, who was a part of the commentary team, opposed Hassan Ali's inclusion in the national team's playing XI for one-off T20I. 
While giving his expert opinion, Younis said he wasn't expecting Hasan's inclusion in the team. 
"I was expecting Shahnawaz Dahani instead of Hasan Ali. Hasan is not in good form," he was quoted saying. 
Here's  how netizens reacted to Hassan Ali's performance:
Abdullah wants to know how many agree with his idea of "get ridding" Hassan Ali.
 
Sports journalist Imran Siddiqui wondered why Shahnawaz  Dahani was included in the final XI.
Dennis believes that with Hassan Ali in the team, it is difficult to defend 200 runs "163 Not a big deal indeed".
Areeba is of the view that Pakistan won two matches when Hassan Ali was not in the team.
 
Muhammad Wajahat said: "Hi, my name is Hassan Ali, and I play for Pakistan & for Australia as well:"
Sharing a doctored picture of Hassan Ali, Muhammad Hasnain tweeted: "Thank You Hassan Ali for wonderful career best wishes for future."
Some more reactions
 

The Aussies punished Hassan Ali in the last T20 played on Wednesday at the Gaddafi Stadium.He conceded 30 runs in his three overs triggering a backlash on social media.His inclusion in the national team remained under criticism as the pacer hasn't been in good form since T20 World Cup 2021.Not only the fans, former cricketers have also criticised the pacer and the selectors for including him and not giving him a break to regain form.While giving his expert opinion, Younis said he wasn't expecting Hasan's inclusion in the team."I was expecting Shahnawaz Dahani instead of Hasan Ali.Hasan is not in good form," he was quoted saying.Sports journalist Imran Siddiqui wondered why Shahnawaz  Dahani was included in the final XI.Muhammad Wajahat said: "Hi, my name is Hassan Ali, and I play for Pakistan & for Australia as well:"
Sharing a doctored picture of Hassan Ali, Muhammad Hasnain tweeted: "Thank You Hassan Ali for wonderful career best wishes for future."Some more reactions


KARACHI: Former Pakistan captain Mohammad Hafeez's support for Prime Minister Imran Khan doesn't sit well with PPP leader and Sindh Information Minister Saeed Ghani who hit back at the cricketer.
Taking to Twitter on Sunday, Mohammad Hafeez praised Prime Minister Imran Khan after the National Assembly was dissolved on his advice following a dramatic turn of events in the lower house, plunging the country into a constitutional crisis.
The cricketer praised Imran Khan calling him a "true legend" after the "surprise".
"Play cricket, don't play with the country," Ghani said.
Hafeez was not the only cricketer who came forward in support of Imran Khan's move.
Former pacers Wasim Akram and Waqar Younus also backed the PM's move.
 

KARACHI: Former Pakistan captain Mohammad Hafeez's support for Prime Minister Imran Khan doesn't sit well with PPP leader and Sindh Information Minister Saeed Ghani who hit back at the cricketer.The cricketer praised Imran Khan calling him a "true legend" after the "surprise"."Play cricket, don't play with the country," Ghani said.Hafeez was not the only cricketer who came forward in support of Imran Khan's move.


It was a dominant performance by the home team at Gaddafi Stadium as they dismissed Australia for a below-par 210 through their fast bowlers, who shared eight wickets and then chased down the target in 37.5 overs losing just one wicket.
Azam, dropped by Travis Head off Jason Behrendorff on one, took full advantage of the reprieve, driving Marnus Labuschagne for two to complete his 16th ODI hundred off 110 balls.
Azam, who scored 114 in the second game, hit 12 boundaries in his 115-ball 105 not out.
Unbeaten Haq followed his own back-to-back hundreds with a polished 89 for his 11th ODI half century. He cracked six boundaries and a six and finished the series with 298 runs.
Haq and Azam shared an unbroken 190-run stand for the second wicket after opener Fakhar Zaman fell to Nathan Ellis for 17 — Australia's only success in the innings.
The elusive win came after Pakistan lost six consecutive ODI series to Australia — and the preceding three-match Test series 1-0 last month.
Australia won the first ODI by 88 runs while Pakistan clinched the second by six wickets, both also at the same venue
Earlier, fast bowlers Haris Rauf (3-39), Mohammad Wasim (3-40) and Shaheen Shah Afridi (2-40) kept the pressure from the start as Australia were bowled out in 41.5 overs.
Alex Carey top-scored with a gritty 61-ball 56 and Sean Abbott hit a 40-ball 49 in an otherwise dismal batting show by the visitors.
Sent in to bat for a third successive time by Azam, Australia lost in-form Head with the first ball of the match, from Shaheen.
Out-of-form Finch fell in the next over from Rauf, trapped leg-before for a second time in a row, as Australia lost both openers without a run on the board.
Rauf made it 3-6 when Marnus Labuschagne edged one to slip for Iftikhar Ahmed to take a simple catch.
Ben McDermott (36) and Marcus Stoinis (19) took the score to 59 when the latter chipped spinner Zahid Mahmood to Haq, who took a good diving catch.
McDermott, who smashed a maiden ODI century in the second game, was trapped leg-before by Wasim for 36 as Australia lost half their side for just 67 by the 16th over.
Carey and Cameron Green (34) added an invaluable 81 runs for the sixth wicket off 95 balls, but Wasim came for his second spell to bowl Green in the 32nd over.
Carey's resistance finally ended when he holed out to spinner Iftikhar after hitting six boundaries and a six.
Abbott, who also hit six boundaries and a six, made sure Australia got past 200 during a last-wicket stand of 44 before falling to Rauf.
Australia will end the tour — their first to Pakistan in 24 years — with a single T20I on Tuesday, also in Lahore.

Azam, dropped by Travis Head off Jason Behrendorff on one, took full advantage of the reprieve, driving Marnus Labuschagne for two to complete his 16th ODI hundred off 110 balls.Azam, who scored 114 in the second game, hit 12 boundaries in his 115-ball 105 not out.Unbeaten Haq followed his own back-to-back hundreds with a polished 89 for his 11th ODI half century.He cracked six boundaries and a six and finished the series with 298 runs.Haq and Azam shared an unbroken 190-run stand for the second wicket after opener Fakhar Zaman fell to Nathan Ellis for 17 — Australia's only success in the innings.Australia won the first ODI by 88 runs while Pakistan clinched the second by six wickets, both also at the same venue
Earlier, fast bowlers Haris Rauf (3-39), Mohammad Wasim (3-40) and Shaheen Shah Afridi (2-40) kept the pressure from the start as Australia were bowled out in 41.5 overs.Alex Carey top-scored with a gritty 61-ball 56 and Sean Abbott hit a 40-ball 49 in an otherwise dismal batting show by the visitors.Rauf made it 3-6 when Marnus Labuschagne edged one to slip for Iftikhar Ahmed to take a simple catch.Carey and Cameron Green (34) added an invaluable 81 runs for the sixth wicket off 95 balls, but Wasim came for his second spell to bowl Green in the 32nd over.Carey's resistance finally ended when he holed out to spinner Iftikhar after hitting six boundaries and a six.Australia will end the tour — their first to Pakistan in 24 years — with a single T20I on Tuesday, also in Lahore.


LONDON: Pakistan all-rounder Shadab Khan has signed to play for Yorkshire in the Twenty20 Blast, the English county announced Friday.
The 23-year-old leg-spinner will be available for the club´s first five and last six fixtures of the domestic T20 competition.
Shadab has represented Pakistan in all three international formats, including 64 Twenty20s where he has taken 73 wickets and boasts a batting strike-rate of 136.81.
Subject to obtaining international clearance, he will now join Pakistan team-mate Haris Rauf at Yorkshire, with the fast bowler available for the first five matches of the Blast.
"Shadab Khan is someone who can bat at the top, bat in the middle order and hits the ball a long way," said Darren Gough, Yorkshire´s interim managing director of cricket.
"He is also an unbelievable spinner," the former England fast bowler added.
Shadab said: "I´m really excited to be heading to Yorkshire for the Blast. Ever since I started my cricketing journey it has always been a dream of mine to play county cricket.
"It will be made even more special with me being able to play alongside my good friend, Haris."
- Ballance break -
But Gary Ballance is set to miss the start of Yorkshire´s season by taking a break in order to improve his mental health.
The batsman, who featured in 23 Tests for England between 2014 and 2017, faced fierce scrutiny in November after last November after admitting he had used racist language towards former Yorkshire team-mate Azeem Rafiq.
Pakistan-born spinner Rafiq accused Yorkshire of failing to deal adequately with the abuse he suffered while playing for the county side, saying he had been driven to thoughts of suicide.
His revelations led to a mass clear-out of senior boardroom figures and coaching staff at the club, with former Yorkshire quick Gough called in while new chairman Kamlesh Patel became the face of a fresh regime.
Yorkshire hope Zimbabwe-born Ballance, 32, will return to action later in the season, with the left-hander having come back from a stress-related break in 2020.
"He´s still a Yorkshire player," Gough told Britain´s Press Association news agency. "He´s off with his mental health, he´s struggled with that in the past as well.
"We will support him in any way possible to hopefully, sometime this season, represent Yorkshire again."
Gough was speaking just hours after Yorkshire´s members approved a reform package at an extraordinary general meeting.
English cricket chiefs were so dismayed by Yorkshire´s initial response to Rafiq´s revelations they threatened to withdraw lucrative England fixtures from Yorkshire´s Headingley headquarters in Leeds.
But Thursday´s EGM votes mean that threat has been lifted, with Gough saying: "It was a relief that happened and now we can move forward.
"It´s about accepting what´s happened in the past, never forgetting it and making sure something like that doesn´t happen again."

Shadab has represented Pakistan in all three international formats, including 64 Twenty20s where he has taken 73 wickets and boasts a batting strike-rate of 136.81.Subject to obtaining international clearance, he will now join Pakistan team-mate Haris Rauf at Yorkshire, with the fast bowler available for the first five matches of the Blast."He is also an unbelievable spinner," the former England fast bowler added.Shadab said: "I´m really excited to be heading to Yorkshire for the Blast.Ever since I started my cricketing journey it has always been a dream of mine to play county cricket."It will be made even more special with me being able to play alongside my good friend, Haris."His revelations led to a mass clear-out of senior boardroom figures and coaching staff at the club, with former Yorkshire quick Gough called in while new chairman Kamlesh Patel became the face of a fresh regime.Yorkshire hope Zimbabwe-born Ballance, 32, will return to action later in the season, with the left-hander having come back from a stress-related break in 2020."He´s still a Yorkshire player," Gough told Britain´s Press Association news agency."He´s off with his mental health, he´s struggled with that in the past as well."We will support him in any way possible to hopefully, sometime this season, represent Yorkshire again."But Thursday´s EGM votes mean that threat has been lifted, with Gough saying: "It was a relief that happened and now we can move forward."It´s about accepting what´s happened in the past, never forgetting it and making sure something like that doesn´t happen again."


LAHORE: Pakistan skipper and flamboyant batter Babar Azam Friday lauded his teammates for defeating Australia in the second ODI at Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium.
"Delighted on the ODI's record-breaking chase Alhumdulillah," Babar said after Pakistan defeated Australia with six wickets in hand and chased down a mammoth target of 349 — the team's highest-ever successful chase in ODIs.
"Well done team," the skipper added.
Skipper Babar and opener Imam-ul-Haq smashed brilliant tons to help Pakistan pull off their highest ODI run chase. Babar hit an 83-ball 114 and Haq notched a 97-ball 106 as Pakistan chased down a stiff 349-run target with six balls to spare to level the three-match series at 1-1.
The skipper also achieved two separate records during the match.
Babar broke the record of former captain and PM Imran Khan by scoring the highest runs in an individual capacity against Australia and also became the quickest batsman in the world to reach his 15th ODI hundred.

LAHORE: Pakistan skipper and flamboyant batter Babar Azam Friday lauded his teammates for defeating Australia in the second ODI at Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium."Delighted on the ODI's record-breaking chase Alhumdulillah," Babar said after Pakistan defeated Australia with six wickets in hand and chased down a mammoth target of 349 — the team's highest-ever successful chase in ODIs."Well done team," the skipper added.Babar hit an 83-ball 114 and Haq notched a 97-ball 106 as Pakistan chased down a stiff 349-run target with six balls to spare to level the three-match series at 1-1.The skipper also achieved two separate records during the match.


Pakistan’s captain Babar Azam and opener Imam-ul-Haq registered separate records during the second one-day international (ODI) against Australia at Lahore's Gaddafi Stadium Thursday.
The flamboyant batter, Babar, once again registered his name in the record books when he became the quickest batsman in the world to reach his 15th ODI hundred.
Babar smashed a century to surpass South Africa’s Hashim Amla in the list of taking the fewest innings to score 15 ODI hundreds.
The 27-year-old cricketer reached this milestone in the 83rd inning of his ODI career. Amla had scored his 15 centuries in 86 innings. No other batter could score 15 centuries in less than 100 innings.
Virat Kohli is 3rd on the list and took 106 innings to reach the mark of 15 ODI centuries.
Earlier, in the first ODI of the three-match series, Babar had become the fastest Asian batter to reach the 4,000 ODI runs mark, he was only one inning short of levelling Hashim Amla’s record quickest to 4,000 runs in ODIs.
Babar had earlier scored his 14th century in the 81st inning, 13th in the 76th innings — both quickest for the respective sequence number.
Babar breaks Imran Khan's record
The right-handed batter also broke the record of former captain and current Prime Minister Imran Khan by scoring the highest runs as skipper against Australia.
In 1990, PM Imran Khan, while playing against Australia at Brisbane, had scored 82 runs, which was the highest total by any Pakistani against Australia until Babar broke it yesterday.
Babar Azam scored a century and played a fantastic knock of 114 off 83 with 11 boundaries and a six.
Imam ul Haq
Opener Imam entered the record books when he become the quickest batsman in the world to reach the ninth ODI hundred in his career.
Imam smashed the century, his 2nd consecutive in the series, and surpassed South Africa’s Hashim Amla in the list of taking the fewest innings to score the ninth ODI hundred.
The 26-year-old opening batter reached this milestone in the 48th inning of his ODI career. Hashim Amla had scored his ninth century in 52 innings, Quinton de Kock took 53 and Babar Azam took 61 innings to score their century in ODIs.
The left-handed batter has also surpassed legend Zaheer Abbas for scoring the most aggregate runs in ODIs after playing the first 48 innings of his career.
During his three-figure innings at Gaddafi Stadium Lahore, Imam surpassed Zaheer Abbas’ record of 2,166 runs in 48 innings. Imam has over 2,200 runs now.
The only cricketer in the world to score more aggregate runs than Imam is South Africa’s Hashim Amla — who had amassed 2,462 runs after batting the first 48 innings in his career.
Pakistani team's record
Moreover, the Pakistan cricket team achieved its highest successful chase in ODIs when it defeated Australia in the second ODI by six wickets.
Babar and Imam's centuries were crucial in helping Pakistan chase the 349 targets.
This is Pakistan’s highest-ever successful chase in ODIs. Before this, Pakistan had successfully chased the target of 327 against Bangladesh at Mirpur in 2014.
Surprisingly, this is only the seventh win for Pakistan while chasing a target of 300 or more. This was the 54th time when the Pakistan team was set a target of 300 or more runs in ODIs.
Pakistan’s total in the innings was 352-4, which is also Pakistan’s second-biggest total while batting second and highest ever total against Australia in ODIs surpassing the previous highest of 315-8 scored at the same venue in 1998.

The 27-year-old cricketer reached this milestone in the 83rd inning of his ODI career.Amla had scored his 15 centuries in 86 innings.No other batter could score 15 centuries in less than 100 innings.Virat Kohli is 3rd on the list and took 106 innings to reach the mark of 15 ODI centuries.Babar had earlier scored his 14th century in the 81st inning, 13th in the 76th innings — both quickest for the respective sequence number.Babar breaks Imran Khan's record
The right-handed batter also broke the record of former captain and current Prime Minister Imran Khan by scoring the highest runs as skipper against Australia.Babar Azam scored a century and played a fantastic knock of 114 off 83 with 11 boundaries and a six.Imam ul Haq
Opener Imam entered the record books when he become the quickest batsman in the world to reach the ninth ODI hundred in his career.Imam smashed the century, his 2nd consecutive in the series, and surpassed South Africa’s Hashim Amla in the list of taking the fewest innings to score the ninth ODI hundred.The left-handed batter has also surpassed legend Zaheer Abbas for scoring the most aggregate runs in ODIs after playing the first 48 innings of his career.Imam has over 2,200 runs now.Pakistani team's record
Moreover, the Pakistan cricket team achieved its highest successful chase in ODIs when it defeated Australia in the second ODI by six wickets.Babar and Imam's centuries were crucial in helping Pakistan chase the 349 targets.This is Pakistan’s highest-ever successful chase in ODIs.Before this, Pakistan had successfully chased the target of 327 against Bangladesh at Mirpur in 2014.Surprisingly, this is only the seventh win for Pakistan while chasing a target of 300 or more.This was the 54th time when the Pakistan team was set a target of 300 or more runs in ODIs.


LAHORE: Skipper Babar Azam and opener Imam-ul-Haq smashed brilliant centuries to help Pakistan pull off their highest ODI run-chase in a six-wicket triumph over Australia in Lahore on Thursday.
Azam hit an 83-ball 114 and Haq notched a 97-ball 106 as Pakistan chased down a stiff 349-run target with six balls to spare to level the three-match series at 1-1.
Ben McDermott cracked a maiden ODI hundred in Australia's imposing total of 348-8 on a flat Gaddafi Stadium pitch.
The victory is Pakistan's first over Australia since Melbourne in January 2017. In between, they had lost 10 consecutive one-day internationals.
Pakistan's win sets up an intriguing final match at the same venue on Saturday. Australia won the first match by 88 runs on Tuesday, also in Lahore.
Haq, who hit six boundaries and three sixes, put on a robust 118-run opening stand with Fakhar Zaman (67) off 111 balls to set the platform for the chase.
Zaman smashed seven boundaries and two sixes during his 64-ball knock before he was bowled by Marcus Stoinis.
Undeterred, Haq completed his ninth hundred off 90 balls before he holed out at long-off in spinner Adam Zampa's 35th over.
Haq added 111 for the second wicket with Azam off 92 balls.
Azam reached his 15th ODI century with a single off Cameron Green, reaching the mark off 73 balls. He added 80 for the third wicket with Mohammad Rizwan before he was caught off Nathan Ellis with 40 needed off 34 balls.
When Rizwan fell for 23, Pakistan still needed 32 but Khushdil Shah cracked 27 not out with two fours and as many sixes and Iftikhar (eight not out) saw off the target in 49 overs.
Pakistan's previous highest ODI chase was 327 achieved against Bangladesh at Mirpur in 2014.
Earlier, McDermott scored 104 off 108 balls in only his fourth ODI, while Travis Head struck 89 and Marnus Labuschagne hit 59 after Australia were sent in to bat in to bat.
All-rounder Stoinis added the finishing touch with a quickfire 49, with five boundaries and a six.
Pace spearhead Shaheen Shah Afridi — who missed Pakistan's 88-run defeat in the first ODI with a knee injury — gave the home side a breakthrough off the third ball of the innings when he trapped Aaron Finch leg-before without scoring.
But Australia scored at will after that with McDermott and Head adding 162 off 144 balls for the second wicket, hitting boundaries with ease.
Head, who scored 101 on Tuesday, smashed five sixes and six fours before miscuing a sweep off leg-spinner Zahid Mahmood, being caught by Shaheen at short fine-leg.
McDermott added another 74 with Labuschagne, and during that stand hit spinner Khushdil over long-off boundary for six to complete a century off 102 balls.
He was finally caught off pacer Mohammad Wasim.
Despite Alex Carey and Cameron Green falling for five each, Sean Abbott chipped in with a 16-ball 28 to boost the total.
Shaheen finished with 4-63 and Wasim took 2-56, but Pakistan's Iftikhar Ahmed and Khushdil conceded 95 runs in ten overs between them.
Teams:
Pakistan: Babar Azam (captain), Fakhar Zaman, Haris Rauf, Shaheen Shah Afridi, Iftikhar Ahmed, Imam-Ul-Haq, Khushdil Shah, Zahid Mahmood, Mohammad Rizwan, Mohammad Wasim Junior, Saud Shakeel
Australia: Aaron Finch (captain), Sean Abbott, Alex Carey, Nathan Ellis, Cameron Green, Travis Head, Marnus Labuschagne, Ben McDermott, Marcus Stoinis, Mitchell Swepson, Adam Zampa
Umpires: Aleem Dar (PAK) and Ahsan Raza (PAK)
TV umpire: Asif Yaqoob (PAK)
Match referee: Muhammad Javed Malik (PAK)

The victory is Pakistan's first over Australia since Melbourne in January 2017.In between, they had lost 10 consecutive one-day internationals.Pakistan's win sets up an intriguing final match at the same venue on Saturday.Australia won the first match by 88 runs on Tuesday, also in Lahore.Zaman smashed seven boundaries and two sixes during his 64-ball knock before he was bowled by Marcus Stoinis.Haq added 111 for the second wicket with Azam off 92 balls.Azam reached his 15th ODI century with a single off Cameron Green, reaching the mark off 73 balls.He added 80 for the third wicket with Mohammad Rizwan before he was caught off Nathan Ellis with 40 needed off 34 balls.Pakistan's previous highest ODI chase was 327 achieved against Bangladesh at Mirpur in 2014.Earlier, McDermott scored 104 off 108 balls in only his fourth ODI, while Travis Head struck 89 and Marnus Labuschagne hit 59 after Australia were sent in to bat in to bat.All-rounder Stoinis added the finishing touch with a quickfire 49, with five boundaries and a six.He was finally caught off pacer Mohammad Wasim.Despite Alex Carey and Cameron Green falling for five each, Sean Abbott chipped in with a 16-ball 28 to boost the total.Shaheen finished with 4-63 and Wasim took 2-56, but Pakistan's Iftikhar Ahmed and Khushdil conceded 95 runs in ten overs between them.Teams:
Pakistan: Babar Azam (captain), Fakhar Zaman, Haris Rauf, Shaheen Shah Afridi, Iftikhar Ahmed, Imam-Ul-Haq, Khushdil Shah, Zahid Mahmood, Mohammad Rizwan, Mohammad Wasim Junior, Saud Shakeel
Australia: Aaron Finch (captain), Sean Abbott, Alex Carey, Nathan Ellis, Cameron Green, Travis Head, Marnus Labuschagne, Ben McDermott, Marcus Stoinis, Mitchell Swepson, Adam Zampa
Umpires: Aleem Dar (PAK) and Ahsan Raza (PAK)
TV umpire: Asif Yaqoob (PAK)
Match referee: Muhammad Javed Malik (PAK)


LAHORE: Pakistan’s star batter Shadab Khan will miss the second consecutive One-day International (ODI) against Australia scheduled to be played at Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore today (Thursday) due to a groin injury.
Well-informed sources said that the cricketer was undergoing treatment for the groin injury, adding that he was gradually recovering from the injury. 
While, the inclusion of pacer Shaheen Shah Afridi, who had suffered a knee injury during training on March 28, in the team for today’s clash is linked with the fitness test ahead of the fixture, the sources added. 
Earlier, Shaheen Shah Afridi was given rest in the first ODI of three-match series due to the injury. Pakistan lost the first match by 88 runs.
ODI series between Pakistan and Australia is a part of ICC Men's Cricket World Cup Super League. The third ODI of the series will be played on April 2 followed by one-off T20I on April 5.

LAHORE: Pakistan’s star batter Shadab Khan will miss the second consecutive One-day International (ODI) against Australia scheduled to be played at Gaddafi Stadium in Lahore today (Thursday) due to a groin injury.Well-informed sources said that the cricketer was undergoing treatment for the groin injury, adding that he was gradually recovering from the injury.While, the inclusion of pacer Shaheen Shah Afridi, who had suffered a knee injury during training on March 28, in the team for today’s clash is linked with the fitness test ahead of the fixture, the sources added.Pakistan lost the first match by 88 runs.The third ODI of the series will be played on April 2 followed by one-off T20I on April 5.


LAHORE: Australia’s renowned allrounder Mitchell Marsh will leave his squad in Pakistan to continue his recovery from a low-grade hip flexor injury, confirmed Cricket Australia (CA) on Wednesday.
In a statement, the Australian cricket board said that Marsh will be released from the squad following the assessment that he would not be available for selection in the remaining three matches of the tour (two ODIs and one T20I).
Marsh will travel to India to link with the Delhi Capitals squad where former Australian and current New South Wales physiotherapist Pat Farhart will manage his recovery following an isolation period, read the statement. 
“Being able to focus on my recovery without the travel and isolation break is the best approach. I am disappointed to miss the Pakistan series but look forward to re-joining the Australian squad for our next tour,” said Marsh.
Earlier, batter Steve Smith and bowler Kane Richardson were also ruled out of the series due to fitness issues.

Marsh will travel to India to link with the Delhi Capitals squad where former Australian and current New South Wales physiotherapist Pat Farhart will manage his recovery following an isolation period, read the statement.“Being able to focus on my recovery without the travel and isolation break is the best approach.I am disappointed to miss the Pakistan series but look forward to re-joining the Australian squad for our next tour,” said Marsh.Earlier, batter Steve Smith and bowler Kane Richardson were also ruled out of the series due to fitness issues.


LAHORE: Travis Head capped a remarkable return to limited over cricket with a fiery century before taking two wickets to anchor Australia's thumping 88-run victory over Pakistan in the first day-night international in Lahore on Tuesday.
Head's 72-ball 101 guided Australia to a challenging 313-7 before the 28-year-old turned his arm over for 2-35 to bowl Pakistan out for 225 in 45.2 overs.
Leg-spinner Adam Zampa also starred with the ball, taking 4-38 in ten probing overs, also completing 100 wickets in 65th ODI.
The victory gives Australia a 1-0 lead in the three-match series, their tenth successive ODI win over Pakistan since January 2017.
Opener Imam-ul-Haq hit a fighting 96-ball 103 while skipper Babar Azam made a 72-ball 57 but with the asking rate hovering around 9.5 Australia were never in doubt of victory.
Haq hit six boundaries and three sixes in his eighth one-day international century but was bowled by paceman Nathan Ellis in the 39th over with 110 needed off 66 balls.
Haq added 96 with Azam for the second wicket after opener Fakhar Zaman fell for 18 and another 38 with Khushdil Shah (19) for the sixth wicket.
Azam, who hit six boundaries in his knock, became the second fastest batter to complete 4,000 ODI runs in 82 innings, one more than South African Hashim Amla's record.
Azam was trapped leg-before wicket by Mitchell Swepson in the 25th over before Head dismissed Saud Shakil (three) and Iftikhar Ahmed (three) to further jolt Pakistan.
Zampa finished with the wickets of Mohammad Rizwan (ten), Hasan Ali (two), Mohammad Wasim (nought) and Khushdil.
Australian skipper Aaron Finch said the plan was to put a good total.
"We felt we needed 300 plus total and that was made easy by Travis scoring a hundred," said Finch. "I am really proud of the way the guys played having no experience of these conditions."
Azam said his dismissal was the turning point.
"We gave some extra runs," said Azam. "I had a good partnership with Haq but when I felt we lost our grip and the chase became difficult."
Earlier, Head knocked his second one-day international hundred and Ben McDermott hit a career-best 55 from 70 balls after Australia were sent in to bat by Pakistan at the Gaddafi Stadium.
Head, playing his first ODI since November 2018, cracked 12 boundaries and three sixes and put on 110 for the opening wicket with Finch who made 23.
Head took a single off spinner Iftikhar to reach three figures off 70 balls, the fastest ODI century by an Australian against Pakistan.
He beat David Warner's record from 78 balls in Adelaide in 2017.
With the score at 209-2 in the 33rd over, Pakistan pulled back with three wickets for just 21 runs in the space of 39 balls, dismissing McDermott, Marnus Labuschagne (25) and Alex Carey (four).
Cameron Green (40 not out), Marcus Stoinis (26) and Sean Abbott (14) helped Australia score 50 in the last five overs and get past the 300-mark.
Green hit three boundaries and a six in his 30-ball knock.
For Pakistan, pacer Haris Rauf took 2-44 and debutant leg-spinner Zahid Mahmood finished with 2-59.
Australia, already missing key players such as Warner, Steve Smith, Pat Cummins, Josh Hazlewood and Mitchell Starc for multiple reasons, were further depleted after spinner Ashton Agar tested positive for Covid-19 on Tuesday.
The remaining two matches are on Thursday and Saturday, also in Lahore.

LAHORE: Travis Head capped a remarkable return to limited over cricket with a fiery century before taking two wickets to anchor Australia's thumping 88-run victory over Pakistan in the first day-night international in Lahore on Tuesday.Leg-spinner Adam Zampa also starred with the ball, taking 4-38 in ten probing overs, also completing 100 wickets in 65th ODI.Haq added 96 with Azam for the second wicket after opener Fakhar Zaman fell for 18 and another 38 with Khushdil Shah (19) for the sixth wicket.Azam, who hit six boundaries in his knock, became the second fastest batter to complete 4,000 ODI runs in 82 innings, one more than South African Hashim Amla's record.Zampa finished with the wickets of Mohammad Rizwan (ten), Hasan Ali (two), Mohammad Wasim (nought) and Khushdil.Australian skipper Aaron Finch said the plan was to put a good total."We felt we needed 300 plus total and that was made easy by Travis scoring a hundred," said Finch."I am really proud of the way the guys played having no experience of these conditions."Azam said his dismissal was the turning point."We gave some extra runs," said Azam."I had a good partnership with Haq but when I felt we lost our grip and the chase became difficult."He beat David Warner's record from 78 balls in Adelaide in 2017.Cameron Green (40 not out), Marcus Stoinis (26) and Sean Abbott (14) helped Australia score 50 in the last five overs and get past the 300-mark.Green hit three boundaries and a six in his 30-ball knock.For Pakistan, pacer Haris Rauf took 2-44 and debutant leg-spinner Zahid Mahmood finished with 2-59.The remaining two matches are on Thursday and Saturday, also in Lahore.


PARIS: The Large Hadron Collider restarted on Friday after a three-year break for upgrades that will allow it to smash protons together at even greater speeds, in the hope of making new ground-breaking discoveries.
It will further study the Higgs boson, the existence of which it proved in 2012, and put the Standard Model of particle physics to the test after recent anomalies sparked theories about a mysterious fifth force of nature.
“Two beams of protons circulated in opposite directions around the Large Hadron Collider’s 27-kilometre ring” just after noon on Friday, Europe’s physics lab CERN said in a statement.
Buried more than 100 metres (330 feet) beneath the border of Switzerland and France, the collider has been closed since December 2018 for maintenance and upgrades, the second longest shutdown in its 14-year history.
To start with, the collider is taking it easy. A “relatively small number of protons” were circulated at an energy of 450 billion electronvolts, CERN said.
“High-intensity, high-energy collisions are a couple of months away,” the head of CERN’s beams department Rhodri Jones said.
CERN said its experts “will work around the clock” to get the collider ready to set a new record of 13.6 trillion electronvolts.
The unprecedented number of upcoming collisions will also serve as the starting gun for four years of massive data collection and analysis by CERN’s four huge particle detectors.
‘Exciting few years’
The Large Hadron Collider’s observation of the Higgs boson was seen as further verification of the Standard Model, which is the best theory scientists have for the most basic building blocks of the universe and what forces govern them.
But the collider’s new phase of exploration comes at an interesting time, with the Standard Model coming under pressure by a series of measurements that do not seem to fit within its framework.
Earlier this month more than 400 scientists said that after a decade of measuring they had found that the W boson has a significantly greater mass than the Standard Model allowed for.
Harry Cliff, a particle physicist at Cambridge University, said the collider’s upgrade means “it’s going to be an exciting few years”.
There are currently four known fundamental forces of nature — gravity, electromagnetism and the strong and weak nuclear forces — and a fifth would be a “really big deal,” he said.
Another explanation could be that we know less than we thought.
It could be that “we’re actually looking at one corner of the picture, and there’s a much bigger picture where the Standard Model makes a lot of sense,” Cliff said. Either way, it would “be a step on a road to a more unified understanding of the basic ingredients of the universe,” he said.
One of the biggest holes in the Standard Model is that it fails to account for dark matter, which is thought to make up a significant amount of the universe.
So far the Large Hadron Collider has found no signs of dark matter.
“By its nature it’s hard to detect,” Cliff said. But he added that “would be a big breakthrough, if we could find a particle of dark matter”.
Published in Dawn, April 23rd, 2022

PARIS: The Large Hadron Collider restarted on Friday after a three-year break for upgrades that will allow it to smash protons together at even greater speeds, in the hope of making new ground-breaking discoveries.It will further study the Higgs boson, the existence of which it proved in 2012, and put the Standard Model of particle physics to the test after recent anomalies sparked theories about a mysterious fifth force of nature.To start with, the collider is taking it easy.A “relatively small number of protons” were circulated at an energy of 450 billion electronvolts, CERN said.“High-intensity, high-energy collisions are a couple of months away,” the head of CERN’s beams department Rhodri Jones said.The unprecedented number of upcoming collisions will also serve as the starting gun for four years of massive data collection and analysis by CERN’s four huge particle detectors.Harry Cliff, a particle physicist at Cambridge University, said the collider’s upgrade means “it’s going to be an exciting few years”.Another explanation could be that we know less than we thought.It could be that “we’re actually looking at one corner of the picture, and there’s a much bigger picture where the Standard Model makes a lot of sense,” Cliff said.Either way, it would “be a step on a road to a more unified understanding of the basic ingredients of the universe,” he said.So far the Large Hadron Collider has found no signs of dark matter.“By its nature it’s hard to detect,” Cliff said.But he added that “would be a big breakthrough, if we could find a particle of dark matter”.Published in Dawn, April 23rd, 2022


ISLAMABAD: A leading internet service provider has filed a petition in Islamabad High Court (IHC) against alleged discriminatory treatment meted out to it by the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) in launching its service in Azad Kashmir (AJK).
The petition filed by Nayatel was heard by Justice Aamer Farooq on Friday.
The petitioner alleged discriminatory treatment by the PTA when it started efforts to provide fibre broadband services in AJK.
The Special Communication Organisation (SCO), a government-owned entity under the under administrative control of the Ministry of IT and Telecom (MOIT), operates commercial telecom business in AJK and GB.
The petitioner maintained that ever since Nayatel attempted to participate in the AJK’s fibre broadband market, PTA has been taking discriminatory steps such as delaying licence applications for more than 270 days whereas law required a new licence to be issued in 120 days, delaying commencement certificates without any reasons, delaying hearing and decision of appeals that were required as per law to be decided in 30 days to impair the business of the company.
The petition said PTA issued a notice to Nayatel on Jan 20, 2022, warning of action when its CEO raised issues relating to the industry and discriminatory treatment by PTA to other operators vis-a-vis SCO at a national broadband forum held in Islamabad on Nov 10, 2021, in which President Arif Alvi was the chief guest.
The issue of free wireless spectrum allocation to the SCO for cellular mobile services was also raised.
Justice Aamer Farooq issued notices to the PTA, Cabinet Division and the ministry.
According to the petition, there existed an alleged conflict of interest between PTA Chairman retired Major General Aamir Azeem Bajwa and the SCO as the former remained the director general of the SCO for two years prior to his retirement and induction in Jan 2019 by the previous government as the PTA chairman.
Published in Dawn, April 23rd, 2022

The petition filed by Nayatel was heard by Justice Aamer Farooq on Friday.The petitioner alleged discriminatory treatment by the PTA when it started efforts to provide fibre broadband services in AJK.The petition said PTA issued a notice to Nayatel on Jan 20, 2022, warning of action when its CEO raised issues relating to the industry and discriminatory treatment by PTA to other operators vis-a-vis SCO at a national broadband forum held in Islamabad on Nov 10, 2021, in which President Arif Alvi was the chief guest.The issue of free wireless spectrum allocation to the SCO for cellular mobile services was also raised.Justice Aamer Farooq issued notices to the PTA, Cabinet Division and the ministry.Published in Dawn, April 23rd, 2022


BRUSSELS: The Euro­pean Union’s bid to adopt a common charging port for mobile phones, tablets and headphones took a step forward on Wednesday when an EU panel backed the proposal, paving the way for an assembly vote next month.
The European Commis­sion suggested a single mobile charging port more than a decade ago, hoping phone makers would be able to find a common solution. It proposed draft legislation last year, a world first, after they failed to do so.
The European Parlia­ment’s Internal Market and Consumer Protection Committee on Wednesday agreed with the Commission’s proposal.
Apple’s iPhones are charged from a Lightning cable while Android-based devices are powered using USB-C connectors. The majority of phones sold in the EU are Android devices.
“With half a billion chargers for portable devices shipped in Europe each year, generating 11,000 to 13,000 tonnes of e-waste, a single charger for mobile phones and other small and medium electronic devices would benefit everyone,” said Alex Agius Saliba, who is leading the debate in parliament.
The committee wants the USB Type-C port to be the standard for mobile phones, tablets, headphones, e-readers, low-powered laptops, keyboards, computer mice, earbuds, smart watches and electronic toys.
Apple has said the proposal would ‘hurt innovation’ and create a mountain of waste if consumers were forced to switch to new chargers.
Published in Dawn, April 21st, 2022

BRUSSELS: The Euro­pean Union’s bid to adopt a common charging port for mobile phones, tablets and headphones took a step forward on Wednesday when an EU panel backed the proposal, paving the way for an assembly vote next month.It proposed draft legislation last year, a world first, after they failed to do so.The European Parlia­ment’s Internal Market and Consumer Protection Committee on Wednesday agreed with the Commission’s proposal.Apple’s iPhones are charged from a Lightning cable while Android-based devices are powered using USB-C connectors.The majority of phones sold in the EU are Android devices.Published in Dawn, April 21st, 2022


An unexpectedly sharp drop in subscribers has Netflix considering changes to its service that it has long resisted: minimizing password sharing and creating a low-cost subscription supported by advertising.
The looming changes announced late Tuesday are designed to help Netflix regain momentum it had lost over the past year. Pandemic-driven lockdowns that drove binge-watching have lifted while deep-pocketed rivals such as Apple and Walt Disney began to chip away at its vast audience with their own streaming services.
Netflix’s customer base fell by 200,000 subscribers during the January-March quarter, the first contraction it had seen since the streaming service became available throughout most of the world outside of China six years ago. The drop stemmed in part from Netflix’s decision to withdraw from Russia to protest the war against Ukraine, resulting in a loss of 700,000 subscribers. Netflix projected a loss of another 2 million subscribers in the current April-June quarter.
 
The erosion, coming off a year of progressively slower growth, has rattled another key constituency for Netflix — its shareholders. After revealing its disappointing performance, Netflix shares plunged by more than 25 per cent in extended trading. If the stock drop extends into Wednesday’s regular trading session, Netflix shares will have lost more than half of their value so far this year — wiping out about $150 billion in shareholder wealth in less than four months.
Aptus Capital Advisors analyst David Wagner said it’s now clear that Netflix is grappling with an imposing challenge. “They are in no-(wo) man’s land,” Wagner wrote in a research note Tuesday.
The Los Gatos, California, company estimated that about 100 million households worldwide are watching its service for free by using the account of a friend or another family member, including 30 million in the US and Canada. “Those are over 100 million households already are choosing to view Netflix,” Hastings said. “We’ve just got to get paid at some degree for them.”
To prod more people to pay for their own accounts, Netflix indicated it will expand a trial program it has been running in three Latin American countries — Chile, Costa Rica and Peru. In these locations, subscribers can extend service to another household for a discounted price. In Costa Rica, for instance, Netflix plan prices range from $9 to $15 a month, but subscribers can openly share their service with another household for $3.
Netflix offered no additional information about how a cheaper ad-supported service tier would work or how much it would cost. Another rival, Hulu, has long offered an ad-supported tier.
While Netflix clearly believes these changes will help it build upon its current 221.6 million worldwide subscribers, the moves also risk alienating customers to the point they cancel the service.
Netflix was previously stung by a customer backlash in 2011 when it unveiled plans to begin charging for its then-nascent streaming service, which has previously been bundled for free with its traditional DVD-by-mail service before its international expansion. In the months after that change, Netflix lost 800,000 subscribers, prompting a apology from Hastings for botching the execution of the spin-off.
Tuesday’s announcement was a sobering comedown for a company that was buoyed two years ago when millions of consumers corralled at home were desperately seeking diversions — a void Netflix was happy to fill. Netflix added 36 million subscribers during 2020, by far the largest annual growth since its video streaming service’s debut in 2007.
But Netflix CEO Reed Hastings now believes those outsized gains may have blinded management. “COVID created a lot of noise on how to read the situation,” he said in a video conference Tuesday.
Netflix began heading in a new direction last year when its service added video games at no additional charge in an attempt to give people another reason to subscribe.
Escalating inflation over the past year has also squeezed household budgets, leading more consumers to rein in their spending on discretionary items. Despite that pressure, Netflix recently raised its prices in the US, where it has its greatest household penetration — and where it’s had the most trouble finding more subscribers.
In the most recent quarter, Netflix lost 640,000 subscribers in the US and Canada, prompting management to point out that most of its future growth will come in international markets. Netflix ended March with 74.6 million subscribers in the US and Canada.

Netflix’s customer base fell by 200,000 subscribers during the January-March quarter, the first contraction it had seen since the streaming service became available throughout most of the world outside of China six years ago.Netflix projected a loss of another 2 million subscribers in the current April-June quarter.The erosion, coming off a year of progressively slower growth, has rattled another key constituency for Netflix — its shareholders.After revealing its disappointing performance, Netflix shares plunged by more than 25 per cent in extended trading.Aptus Capital Advisors analyst David Wagner said it’s now clear that Netflix is grappling with an imposing challenge.“They are in no-(wo) man’s land,” Wagner wrote in a research note Tuesday.“Those are over 100 million households already are choosing to view Netflix,” Hastings said.“We’ve just got to get paid at some degree for them.”
To prod more people to pay for their own accounts, Netflix indicated it will expand a trial program it has been running in three Latin American countries — Chile, Costa Rica and Peru.In these locations, subscribers can extend service to another household for a discounted price.In Costa Rica, for instance, Netflix plan prices range from $9 to $15 a month, but subscribers can openly share their service with another household for $3.Netflix offered no additional information about how a cheaper ad-supported service tier would work or how much it would cost.Another rival, Hulu, has long offered an ad-supported tier.In the months after that change, Netflix lost 800,000 subscribers, prompting a apology from Hastings for botching the execution of the spin-off.But Netflix CEO Reed Hastings now believes those outsized gains may have blinded management.“COVID created a lot of noise on how to read the situation,” he said in a video conference Tuesday.Netflix began heading in a new direction last year when its service added video games at no additional charge in an attempt to give people another reason to subscribe.Escalating inflation over the past year has also squeezed household budgets, leading more consumers to rein in their spending on discretionary items.Netflix ended March with 74.6 million subscribers in the US and Canada.


BENGALURU: Twitter Inc on Friday adopted a limited-duration shareholder rights plan to protect itself from billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk’s $43 billion cash takeover offer.
Musk made the bid on Wednesday in a letter to the board of Twitter — the micro-blogging platform that has become a global means of communication for individuals and world leaders — and it was made public in a regulatory filing on Thursday.
After his TED talk on Thursday, Musk hinted at the possibility of a hostile bid in which he would bypass Twitter’s board and put the offer directly to its shareholders, tweeting: “It would be utterly indefensible not to put this offer to a shareholder vote.” Under the plan, also known as a ‘poison pill’ strategy to resist a bid from a potential acquirer, the rights will become exercisable if anyone acquires ownership of 15 per cent or more of Twitter’s outstanding common stock in a transaction not approved by the Board.
The rights plan will expire on April 14, 2023, Twitter said.
According to analysts and shareholder activists, Musk could alter the course of the social media company as the management battles a set of proxy proposals focused on topics from civil rights to politics at its upcoming annual meeting.
Whatever the outcome of Musk’s bid to buy Twitter outright announced on Thursday, investors with opposing political views described the billionaire entrepreneur as likely to work to undo some of the restrictions on content that Twitter has imposed as it attempts to promote free speech while combating hate speech and false information.
Even if he fails to buy Twitter, the Tesla CEO, who recently disclosed a 9.6 per cent stake, is seen as likely to vote in ways that could shake up the company at its virtual May 25 meeting, said people who follow corporate governance issues.
“Given where Musk has positioned himself relative to the strategy of Twitter and given he wants to be something of a disrupter, I don’t see him voting with management very often,” said Brian Bueno of Farient Advisors, a corporate governance and executive pay consulting firm.
Musk said his offer price of $54.20 per share was meant to promote open discourse. At the virtual meeting, he will control the second-largest stake after Vanguard Group, enough to give either investor a kingmaker role in close contests.
Musk did not immediately respond to requests for comment on how he might vote at Twitter.
Musk’s star power will likely draw much attention to event, said Charles Elson, founding director of the Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. “He’s a well-known individual in the middle of all this, so it will increase the interest in voting and could have a big impact,” Elson said.
Although Twitter on Friday adopted a shareholder rights plan to defend itself against Musk, Elson said its impact on the voting might only be to make proxy advisers, which tend to frown on such so-called “poison pills,” more skeptical of management.
Twitter faces five shareholder proposals, all opposed by management, dealing with topics drawing much investor attention.
Two are from conservative groups, one asking Twitter to report on its impact on civil rights and the other on its lobbying activities. Scott Shepard, a fellow at the right-leaning National Center for Public Policy Research think tank, one of the sponsors, called Musk’s offer “terrific” for shareholders.
Published in Dawn, April 16th, 2022

After his TED talk on Thursday, Musk hinted at the possibility of a hostile bid in which he would bypass Twitter’s board and put the offer directly to its shareholders, tweeting: “It would be utterly indefensible not to put this offer to a shareholder vote.” Under the plan, also known as a ‘poison pill’ strategy to resist a bid from a potential acquirer, the rights will become exercisable if anyone acquires ownership of 15 per cent or more of Twitter’s outstanding common stock in a transaction not approved by the Board.The rights plan will expire on April 14, 2023, Twitter said.According to analysts and shareholder activists, Musk could alter the course of the social media company as the management battles a set of proxy proposals focused on topics from civil rights to politics at its upcoming annual meeting.“Given where Musk has positioned himself relative to the strategy of Twitter and given he wants to be something of a disrupter, I don’t see him voting with management very often,” said Brian Bueno of Farient Advisors, a corporate governance and executive pay consulting firm.Musk said his offer price of $54.20 per share was meant to promote open discourse.At the virtual meeting, he will control the second-largest stake after Vanguard Group, enough to give either investor a kingmaker role in close contests.Musk did not immediately respond to requests for comment on how he might vote at Twitter.“He’s a well-known individual in the middle of all this, so it will increase the interest in voting and could have a big impact,” Elson said.Twitter faces five shareholder proposals, all opposed by management, dealing with topics drawing much investor attention.Two are from conservative groups, one asking Twitter to report on its impact on civil rights and the other on its lobbying activities.Published in Dawn, April 16th, 2022


WASHINGTON: North Korean-tied hackers were responsible for a $620-million cryptocurrency heist last month targeting players of the popular Axie Infinity game, US authorities said on Thursday.
The hack was one of the biggest to hit the crypto world, raising huge questions about security in an industry that only recently burst into the mainstream thanks to celebrity promotions and promises of untold wealth.
Last month’s theft from the makers of Axie Infinity, a game where players can earn crypto through game play or trading their avatars, came just weeks after thieves made off with around $320 million in a similar attack.
“Through our investigations we were able to confirm Lazarus Group and APT38, cyber actors associated with (North Korea), are responsible for the theft,” the FBI said in a statement.
Lazarus Group gained notoriety in 2014 when it was accused of hacking into Sony Pictures Entertainment as revenge for “The Interview,” a satirical film that mocked North Korean leader Kim Jong Un.
North Korea’s cyber-program dates back to at least the mid-1990s, but has since grown to a 6,000-strong cyber-warfare unit, known as Bureau 121, that operates from several countries including Belarus, China, India, Malaysia and Russia, according to a 2020 US military report.
John Bambenek, a threat analyst with digital security firm Netenrich, said North Korea is “unique” in employing groups dedicated to cryptocurrency theft.
“As North Korea is highly-sanctioned, cryptocurrency thefts are also a national security interest for them,” he said.
North Korean hackers stole around $400 million-worth of cryptocurrency through cyberattacks on digital currency outlets last year, blockchain data platform Chainalysis said in January.
In the case of the Axie Infinity heist, attackers exploited weaknesses in the set-up put in place by the Vietnam-based firm behind the game, Sky Mavis.
The company had to solve a problem: the ethereum blockchain, where transactions in the ether cryptocurrency are logged, is relatively slow and expensive to use.
To allow Axie Infinity players to buy and sell at speed, the firm created an in-game currency and a sidechain with a bridge to the main ethereum blockchain.
The result was faster and cheaper — but ultimately less secure.
The attack targeting its blockchain netted 173,600 ether and $25.5 million-worth of stablecoin, a digital asset pegged to the US dollar.
Published in Dawn, April 16th, 2022

WASHINGTON: North Korean-tied hackers were responsible for a $620-million cryptocurrency heist last month targeting players of the popular Axie Infinity game, US authorities said on Thursday.North Korea’s cyber-program dates back to at least the mid-1990s, but has since grown to a 6,000-strong cyber-warfare unit, known as Bureau 121, that operates from several countries including Belarus, China, India, Malaysia and Russia, according to a 2020 US military report.“As North Korea is highly-sanctioned, cryptocurrency thefts are also a national security interest for them,” he said.In the case of the Axie Infinity heist, attackers exploited weaknesses in the set-up put in place by the Vietnam-based firm behind the game, Sky Mavis.The company had to solve a problem: the ethereum blockchain, where transactions in the ether cryptocurrency are logged, is relatively slow and expensive to use.To allow Axie Infinity players to buy and sell at speed, the firm created an in-game currency and a sidechain with a bridge to the main ethereum blockchain.The result was faster and cheaper — but ultimately less secure.The attack targeting its blockchain netted 173,600 ether and $25.5 million-worth of stablecoin, a digital asset pegged to the US dollar.Published in Dawn, April 16th, 2022


Tesla CEO Elon Musk is offering to buy Twitter, saying the social media platform he has criticised for not living up to free speech principles needs to be transformed as a private company.
Twitter Inc said in a regulatory filing on Thursday that Musk, currently the company’s biggest shareholder, has proposed buying the remaining shares of Twitter that he doesn’t already own at $54.20 per share, an offer worth more than $43 billion.
Musk called that price his best and final offer, although he provided no details on financing. The offer is non-binding and subject to financing and other conditions.
“I invested in Twitter as I believe in its potential to be the platform for free speech around the globe, and I believe free speech is a societal imperative for a functioning democracy,” Musk said in the filing. “However, since making my investment I now realise the company will neither thrive nor serve this societal imperative in its current form. Twitter needs to be transformed as a private company.”
Twitter said it has received Musk’s offer and will decide whether it is in the best interests of shareholders to accept or continue to operate as a publicly-traded company.
Analyst Daniel Ives of Wedbush said in a client note that he believes “this soap opera will end with Musk owning Twitter after this aggressive hostile takeover of the company.” He thinks it would be hard for any other bidders or consortium to come forward and said Twitter’s board will likely be forced to accept Musk’s offer or start a process to sell the company.
The billionaire has been a vocal critic of Twitter in recent weeks, mostly over his belief that it falls short of free speech principles. The social media platform has angered followers of Donald Trump and other far-right political figures who’ve had their accounts suspended for violating its content standards on violence, hate or harmful misinformation. Musk, who has described himself as a “free speech absolutist”, also has a history of his own tweets causing legal problems.
He didn’t explain why, but the decision coincided with a barrage of now-deleted tweets from Musk proposing major changes to the company, such as dropping ads — its chief source of revenue — and transforming its San Francisco headquarters into a homeless shelter. Musk left a few clues on Twitter about his thinking, such as by “liking” a tweet that summarised the events as Musk going from “largest shareholder for Free Speech” to being “told to play nice and not speak freely”.
Musk’s 81 million Twitter followers make him one of the most popular figures on the platform, rivalling pop stars like Ariana Grande and Lady Gaga. But his prolific tweeting has sometimes gotten him into trouble with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and others.
Musk and Tesla in 2018 agreed to pay $40m in civil fines and for Musk to have his tweets approved by a corporate lawyer after he tweeted about having the money to take Tesla private at $420 per share. That didn’t happen, but the tweet caused Tesla’s stock price to jump. Musk’s latest trouble with the SEC could be his delay in notifying regulators of his growing stake in Twitter.
Shares of Twitter jumped 11pc before the market opened. The stock is still down from its 52-week high of about $73. Shares of Tesla, the electric vehicle manufacturer that Musk heads, slipped about 0.9pc.

Musk called that price his best and final offer, although he provided no details on financing.The offer is non-binding and subject to financing and other conditions.“I invested in Twitter as I believe in its potential to be the platform for free speech around the globe, and I believe free speech is a societal imperative for a functioning democracy,” Musk said in the filing.“However, since making my investment I now realise the company will neither thrive nor serve this societal imperative in its current form.Analyst Daniel Ives of Wedbush said in a client note that he believes “this soap opera will end with Musk owning Twitter after this aggressive hostile takeover of the company.” He thinks it would be hard for any other bidders or consortium to come forward and said Twitter’s board will likely be forced to accept Musk’s offer or start a process to sell the company.The billionaire has been a vocal critic of Twitter in recent weeks, mostly over his belief that it falls short of free speech principles.Musk, who has described himself as a “free speech absolutist”, also has a history of his own tweets causing legal problems.But his prolific tweeting has sometimes gotten him into trouble with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and others.That didn’t happen, but the tweet caused Tesla’s stock price to jump.Musk’s latest trouble with the SEC could be his delay in notifying regulators of his growing stake in Twitter.Shares of Twitter jumped 11pc before the market opened.The stock is still down from its 52-week high of about $73.Shares of Tesla, the electric vehicle manufacturer that Musk heads, slipped about 0.9pc.


SAN FRANCISCO: Elon Musk is no longer joining the board of Twitter, the CEO of the social media company said late on Sunday, in a reversal less than a week after announcing the Tesla and SpaceX chief would be appointed.
Musk was named to join the Twitter board after buying a major stake in the firm and becoming its largest shareholder.
“Elon has decided not to join our board,” Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal tweeted.
“Elon’s appointment to the board was to become officially effective 4/9, but Elon shared that same morning he will no longer be joining the board,” Agrawal said.
“I believe this is for the best.” Currently the world’s richest man and with more than 80 million followers on the microblogging platform, Musk last week disclosed a purchase of 73.5 million shares — or 9.2 percent — of Twitter’s common stock.
Published in Dawn, April 12th, 2022

SAN FRANCISCO: Elon Musk is no longer joining the board of Twitter, the CEO of the social media company said late on Sunday, in a reversal less than a week after announcing the Tesla and SpaceX chief would be appointed.Musk was named to join the Twitter board after buying a major stake in the firm and becoming its largest shareholder.“I believe this is for the best.” Currently the world’s richest man and with more than 80 million followers on the microblogging platform, Musk last week disclosed a purchase of 73.5 million shares — or 9.2 percent — of Twitter’s common stock.Published in Dawn, April 12th, 2022


 
Through the Fast Track program, NayaPay has access to Visa’s growing partner network, technology and resources to accelerate innovation in digital payments in Pakistan.
As an Electronic Money Institution (EMI), NayaPay will enable users to open E-Money accounts within a few minutes and make hassle-free digital payments to each other and to businesses. 
NayaPay consumers and merchants can use their NayaPay Visa debit card to perform online and in-store transactions with millions of retailers worldwide as well as withdraw cash conveniently at any ATM location. 
NayaPay customers can also scan Visa merchant QR codes to make payments directly through their app.
NayaPay will also be leveraging Visa Direct to simplify cross-border money transfers for freelancers and other Pakistan based businesses working with international clients, and households receiving remittances from their families abroad. 
Users will be able to accept funds instantly and directly into their NayaPay wallets from over a billion Visa cards across the globe.
“We are committed to helping fintechs achieve their potential – enabling big ideas to flourish and supporting them through the reach, scale and security of the Visa network,” said Kamil Khan, Country Manager, Pakistan, Visa. “We have strategically evolved both our platforms and how we work with partners and customers to encourage a broadening of the fintech ecosystem globally and are excited by the opportunities and new use cases the NayaPay partnership will enable in Pakistan. Our work with NayaPay is a stepping stone in that evolution and we look forward to further supporting them on their journey.”
Danish Lakhani, CEO NayaPay, said: “We are delighted to have found a partner in Visa that shares our goals of making financial services simpler, more convenient and accessible to Pakistani users – the needs of whom have been overlooked for far too long. Over the past few months, we have been integrating Visa’s offerings to reinforce our issuing and acquiring capabilities and to deliver on our promise of becoming a part of citizens’ daily lives.” 
“By joining Visa’s Fintech Fast Track program, exciting fintechs like NayaPay gain unprecedented access to Visa experts, technology, and resources,” said Otto Williams, Vice President, Strategic Partnerships, Fintech and Ventures, CEMEA at Visa. “The Visa Fintech Fast Track program lets us provide new resources that rapidly growing companies need to scale with efficiency. We’re delighted to welcome NayaPay into our program and look forward to working with them on their payment solutions that will transform financial inclusion in Pakistan.”
This content is a paid advertisement and is not associated with or necessarily reflective of the views of Dawn.com and its editorial staff.

As an Electronic Money Institution (EMI), NayaPay will enable users to open E-Money accounts within a few minutes and make hassle-free digital payments to each other and to businesses.NayaPay consumers and merchants can use their NayaPay Visa debit card to perform online and in-store transactions with millions of retailers worldwide as well as withdraw cash conveniently at any ATM location.NayaPay customers can also scan Visa merchant QR codes to make payments directly through their app.NayaPay will also be leveraging Visa Direct to simplify cross-border money transfers for freelancers and other Pakistan based businesses working with international clients, and households receiving remittances from their families abroad.Users will be able to accept funds instantly and directly into their NayaPay wallets from over a billion Visa cards across the globe.Our work with NayaPay is a stepping stone in that evolution and we look forward to further supporting them on their journey.”
Danish Lakhani, CEO NayaPay, said: “We are delighted to have found a partner in Visa that shares our goals of making financial services simpler, more convenient and accessible to Pakistani users – the needs of whom have been overlooked for far too long.Over the past few months, we have been integrating Visa’s offerings to reinforce our issuing and acquiring capabilities and to deliver on our promise of becoming a part of citizens’ daily lives.” 
“By joining Visa’s Fintech Fast Track program, exciting fintechs like NayaPay gain unprecedented access to Visa experts, technology, and resources,” said Otto Williams, Vice President, Strategic Partnerships, Fintech and Ventures, CEMEA at Visa.“The Visa Fintech Fast Track program lets us provide new resources that rapidly growing companies need to scale with efficiency.


So where did it all begin?
Good mentorship
Mr Bilal was just an ordinary guy who like many other A-Levels students was not sure about his future. He figured out very early that he did not want to go to a university. He then planned to get an ACCA degree and decided to become an auditor. But this did not work out.
Thinking that a career as a rock guitarist might be the thing for him because he had participated in several school gigs before, he decided to try his luck in singing. But Mr Bilal was counselled by his father who being a good mentor told him he would not be able to have a stable career in singing, rather he should utilise his other talent, in computers.
He first used a computer when he was only 5 years old. This was where his passion for the world of computing began.
Then, a friend from England told him to take a certification in Cisco and work in networking technology. He went on to complete two CCIE certifications.
Still 21 years of age, he was used to getting many job offers. He even turned down the offer of a big telecommunication company in Saudi Arabia and rather chose to do a job in Beaconhouse. But thankfully within six months of his work there, he realised that his talent was being wasted and his job role was not utilising his Cisco expertise at all.
A company from Abu Dhabi called him to give training sessions in Cisco. This company also specialised in disaster recovery solutions. After gaining some experience, Mr Bilal left the company to form his own company – Ikhtira Systems – in Multan, a city chosen specifically because there was no competition in disaster recovery services there. Lahore already had so many companies doing similar work. His company’s name ‘Ikhtira’ was taken from a band he was a part of in high school. But just like the band, the company suffered heavy losses and failed within 10 months of operations.
Mr Bilal was distraught; he did not want to go back home and ask his parents for support. People used to look up to him and appreciate the fact that he started a company at 22, and now they were making fun of him. He did not even have money to buy lunch for three consecutive days.
Freelancing pays
Destiny then led him to a guy who told him to start freelancing on the Internet. He had a network of very supportive friends in Multan. Even though, he did not have money to buy his own Internet service, being the geeky genius he was, he started hacking into other people’s Wi-Fi. Freelancing started making him some money. He got his first project in 10 days and although he only made $35 for his first project, he was relieved that at least now, he was earning something. “Things then started moving in a good direction. Freelancing really helped,” he recalls.
With the confidence of some money in his pocket, he went back home and started living with his family in Vehari. But his parents were upset with his routine. He used to sleep all day and work all night. His parents worried that no girl would marry him if he continued like this. Mr Bilal then got the opportunity to move to Lahore. He started helping Arfa Karim’s parents in setting up their institution in Plan9. He didn’t charge them any money, just utilised the space for his own work. By this time, he had started working on Wifigen already.
Getting breakthroughs
During his freelancing gigs, Mr Bilal got a project from someone who turned out to be John Russell Patrick, the ex-VP of IBM. He pitched Wifigen’s idea to him, but although John liked the idea, he said that he did not invest in early-stage companies. Mr Bilal was nonetheless adamant that Mr John could at least mentor him. Thus, began the journey of a mentor turning into an investor.
Mr Bilal then went on to do a project for another lady who had her own consultancy company in New Zealand. She introduced him to someone who wanted to be a reseller for this product in New Zealand, but was told to complete the product in two months. Mr Bilal argued that he needed funds to complete it in such a short period. The reseller in New Zealand agreed to fund the project without taking any equity. A lucky break, you may call it. He then hired some people on freelancer.com to help him build his product within 45 days. The proposed timeline for project completion was 60 days. This left a 15 days leverage to further test the product and eradicate any flaws.
But that was not enough for him. He was surprised to find that anyone could apply at Plan9. It was a very open community that really motivated him. He went on to launch his own company in New Zealand. Within three months of incubation, he raised funding from his old mentor, Mr John.
Then during a business trip to Singapore, he met a representative from Changi Airport who was really interested in deploying Wifigen on their airport. Mr Bilal then started beta testing Wifigen on Singapore’s airport. Later on, he got Unilever Pakistan on board too. But this was only the beginning. He signed on the biggest deal in the history of Wi-Fi at Tahiti Island, which wanted to use Wifigen to give a better experience to tourists. Wifigen then was seen as a product with a huge application in the tourism industry.
What’s next?
Mr Bilal has been trying to integrate artificial intelligence with Wi-Fi for the last three months. He realises that machine learning is necessary to make things easy for the advertisers and the people who will be using its Wi-Fi. It will allow the advertisers to know exactly who the end user is and how deep his pockets are, so they can accordingly pitch them different products.
He wishes to move into more markets as business expansion will be the key driver of Wifigen’s success. His company currently has a multi-million dollar valuation while trying to raise another round of investment. For all those aspiring entrepreneurs out there, he has only one thing to say: “Keep failing until you are ready to change the world.”

So where did it all begin?He figured out very early that he did not want to go to a university.He then planned to get an ACCA degree and decided to become an auditor.But this did not work out.But Mr Bilal was counselled by his father who being a good mentor told him he would not be able to have a stable career in singing, rather he should utilise his other talent, in computers.He first used a computer when he was only 5 years old.This was where his passion for the world of computing began.Then, a friend from England told him to take a certification in Cisco and work in networking technology.He went on to complete two CCIE certifications.This company also specialised in disaster recovery solutions.After gaining some experience, Mr Bilal left the company to form his own company – Ikhtira Systems – in Multan, a city chosen specifically because there was no competition in disaster recovery services there.Lahore already had so many companies doing similar work.Mr Bilal was distraught; he did not want to go back home and ask his parents for support.People used to look up to him and appreciate the fact that he started a company at 22, and now they were making fun of him.He had a network of very supportive friends in Multan.Even though, he did not have money to buy his own Internet service, being the geeky genius he was, he started hacking into other people’s Wi-Fi.Freelancing started making him some money.“Things then started moving in a good direction.Freelancing really helped,” he recalls.But his parents were upset with his routine.He used to sleep all day and work all night.His parents worried that no girl would marry him if he continued like this.Mr Bilal then got the opportunity to move to Lahore.He didn’t charge them any money, just utilised the space for his own work.By this time, he had started working on Wifigen already.Getting breakthroughs
During his freelancing gigs, Mr Bilal got a project from someone who turned out to be John Russell Patrick, the ex-VP of IBM.Thus, began the journey of a mentor turning into an investor.Mr Bilal then went on to do a project for another lady who had her own consultancy company in New Zealand.She introduced him to someone who wanted to be a reseller for this product in New Zealand, but was told to complete the product in two months.A lucky break, you may call it.The proposed timeline for project completion was 60 days.This left a 15 days leverage to further test the product and eradicate any flaws.But that was not enough for him.He was surprised to find that anyone could apply at Plan9.It was a very open community that really motivated him.Then during a business trip to Singapore, he met a representative from Changi Airport who was really interested in deploying Wifigen on their airport.Later on, he got Unilever Pakistan on board too.But this was only the beginning.Wifigen then was seen as a product with a huge application in the tourism industry.What’s next?He wishes to move into more markets as business expansion will be the key driver of Wifigen’s success.


JazzCash has stepped in to facilitate freelancers in Pakistan by enabling them to directly receive funds from a Payoneer account into their JazzCash account. 
This initiative allows fund transfers to take place instantly and in real time.
How to use the app
Funds from Payoneer can be received instantly in JazzCash Mobile Account. 
Freelancers can register their JazzCash mobile account by downloading the application and then linking
their Payoneer account with it; this step ensures that users do not need to traveling to bank branches and provide extensive documentation for account opening.
The process
Here's how the linking process takes place:
 
Here's how the withdrawal process takes place:
 
Key features
JazzCash and Payoneer's partnership ensures freelancers reap many benefits from the service in as little time as possible. 
Here are the top ones:
Direct payment options
Funds via JazzCash can help customers make payments for the following:

JazzCash has stepped in to facilitate freelancers in Pakistan by enabling them to directly receive funds from a Payoneer account into their JazzCash account.This initiative allows fund transfers to take place instantly and in real time.The process
Here's how the linking process takes place:
 
Here's how the withdrawal process takes place:
 
Key features
JazzCash and Payoneer's partnership ensures freelancers reap many benefits from the service in as little time as possible.Here are the top ones:
Direct payment options
Funds via JazzCash can help customers make payments for the following:


The article further pointed out that the startup industry "is central to government plans to create an enabling environment [...] and stimulate economic growth" and that in the latter half of 2019, Pakistan passed six reforms focused on creating a better environment for tech-based businesses in the country. 
The article — while pointing out that startups in Pakistan raised $18.8 million in funding in 2019 — said that "more capital is expected to flow into startups from overseas in the ensuing years".
"A few Pakistani tech startups have raised huge funding rounds at a time where our economy is just keeping its head above water," he was quoted as saying. "This makes sense, considering we have a huge market of young, digitally-savvy consumers and increased 3G and 4G connectivity."

The article further pointed out that the startup industry "is central to government plans to create an enabling environment [...] and stimulate economic growth" and that in the latter half of 2019, Pakistan passed six reforms focused on creating a better environment for tech-based businesses in the country.The article — while pointing out that startups in Pakistan raised $18.8 million in funding in 2019 — said that "more capital is expected to flow into startups from overseas in the ensuing years"."This makes sense, considering we have a huge market of young, digitally-savvy consumers and increased 3G and 4G connectivity."


In Pakistan, shopping without bargaining isn’t really shopping – something that online stores unfortunately take away. 
And while bargain hunting can be done on the internet (prices often vary on online stores), it requires users to visit different e-stores in order to find the best prices, which takes time and kills the whole point of convenient online shopping.
One-stop price comparison for cellphones
The e-store was launched in 2015. It does not sell cellphone on its own. The website, still in its beta version, is actually a service that allows users to compare cellphone prices from different Pakistani online stores. Once a user selects a handset, the website displays a list of e-stores where the product is available. By clicking on the tab of a particular store, the user is taken to that store's website where the order can be placed. 
Smartphones are the largest online selling product in Pakistan, which is why PriceOye started with cellphones. The need to expand to other products in the future has also been mentioned, but for now, the website only deals with cellphones.
Credible and up to date
Apart from gathering prices from different online stores, PriceOye also makes sure that prices are always up to date and the offers are credible – two things that other online stores aren’t always able to ensure. It does so by implementing an automatic system that keeps a check on prices offered by legitimate online stores. 
PriceOye also has user-friendly website, with a straightforward presentation of products. It has filters that help narrow down handsets based on price, screen size, processor, camera quality, storage, and operating systems. The website also shows a chart displaying weekly changes in prices of a cellphone. 
Room for improvement
While general browsing is smooth, the website still needs to be more flexible. 
For example, you can only search for the phones by brand and compare the prices between different stores. There is no option to compare different phones in the same price brackets. You can know how much a Samsung phone is available for, but you cannot know what kind of phones are available and where for, let’s say, RS35000-50000. 
Absence of such crucial feature could be deal breaker for some. It’s more efficient to have all your results on one page instead of having to go through five or six pages. An improvement on this front would save users a lot of frustration. As for the mobile version of the website, it does not have all the features yet.
PriceOye is a welcome addition to the growing number of online stores in Pakistan. Small improvements to the the website’s platform will make it much better.  
The author is a graphic designer and freelance writer with a focus on tech.

In Pakistan, shopping without bargaining isn’t really shopping – something that online stores unfortunately take away.And while bargain hunting can be done on the internet (prices often vary on online stores), it requires users to visit different e-stores in order to find the best prices, which takes time and kills the whole point of convenient online shopping.It does not sell cellphone on its own.By clicking on the tab of a particular store, the user is taken to that store's website where the order can be placed.The need to expand to other products in the future has also been mentioned, but for now, the website only deals with cellphones.PriceOye also has user-friendly website, with a straightforward presentation of products.Room for improvement
While general browsing is smooth, the website still needs to be more flexible.There is no option to compare different phones in the same price brackets.You can know how much a Samsung phone is available for, but you cannot know what kind of phones are available and where for, let’s say, RS35000-50000.Absence of such crucial feature could be deal breaker for some.An improvement on this front would save users a lot of frustration.As for the mobile version of the website, it does not have all the features yet.PriceOye is a welcome addition to the growing number of online stores in Pakistan.Small improvements to the the website’s platform will make it much better.The author is a graphic designer and freelance writer with a focus on tech.


Apple on Wednesday unveiled updated versions of its priciest iPhones along with a new smartwatch that allows users to take their own electrocardiograms, as the US tech giant looks to boost its momentum in a sputtering market. 
The California tech giant revealed its iPhone XS and iPhone XS Max, updating the top-of-the line handsets released a year earlier. The new devices are aimed at maintaining Apple's share in the premium segment. 
“We are going to take iPhone X to the next level,” chief executive Tim Cook said at a media event at the company's headquarters in Cupertino, California. 
The new phones have displays of 5.8 and 6.5 inches, boosting screen size while keeping a small-format handset, Apple vice president Phil Schiller said. 
The September event allows the company to unveil its latest offerings before the key holiday shopping season. 
While the iPhone has made Apple the world's most valuable company, worth more than $1 trillion, it has slipped to third place among smartphone makers as Chinese-based Huawei has grabbed the number two spot. 
Analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy said Apple had done enough “to keep its smartphone growth going until the competition responds.” 
New smartwatch features
Apple also introduced a fourth generation of Apple Watch with a major redesign -- and a series of features designed to improve its performance as a medical and health device. 
The watch, sold in the United States from $399 and up, will be available in stores on September 21. 
“Apple Watch has become an intelligent guardian for your health,” chief operating officer Jeff Williams said. 
He highlighted a major innovation -- the watch's ability to perform an electrocardiogram. 
“This is the first ECG product offered over the counter directly to consumers,” he said. “Now you can take an ECG any time, anywhere, right from the wrist.” 
The device also detects when a person suffers a fall, seen as an important feature for elderly or disabled users. 
“Identifying a fall may sound like a straightforward problem, but it requires a lot of data analysis,” Williams said. 
If a person falls, and then is motionless, the watch will call emergency services, he added. 
'Crossroads'
Research firm CB Insights said Apple is at a “crossroads” a decade after introducing the iPhone. 
“Looking for the next wave, Apple is clearly expanding into augmented reality and wearables with the Apple Watch and AirPods wireless headphones,” the firm said.
“But the next 'big one' -- a success and growth driver on the scale of the iPhone -- has not yet been determined. Will it be augmented reality, auto, wearables? Or something else entirely?” 
Apple's event comes with the global smartphone market largely saturated, without a major catalyst for sales ahead of a likely rollout of 5G, or fifth generation, wireless networks, expected in 2019. 
Research firm IDC expects worldwide smartphone shipments to decline 0.7 percent in 2018 to 1.455 billion units, with growth likely to resume as 5G devices become available. 
Cook said Apple was nearing its two billionth device for its mobile operating system known as iOS. 
“We are about to hit a major milestone. We are about to ship our two billionth iOS device,” he said. “This is astonishing -- iOS has changed the way we live. “

The new devices are aimed at maintaining Apple's share in the premium segment.The September event allows the company to unveil its latest offerings before the key holiday shopping season.Analyst Patrick Moorhead of Moor Insights & Strategy said Apple had done enough “to keep its smartphone growth going until the competition responds.” 
New smartwatch features
Apple also introduced a fourth generation of Apple Watch with a major redesign -- and a series of features designed to improve its performance as a medical and health device.The watch, sold in the United States from $399 and up, will be available in stores on September 21.“Apple Watch has become an intelligent guardian for your health,” chief operating officer Jeff Williams said.He highlighted a major innovation -- the watch's ability to perform an electrocardiogram.“This is the first ECG product offered over the counter directly to consumers,” he said.“Identifying a fall may sound like a straightforward problem, but it requires a lot of data analysis,” Williams said.If a person falls, and then is motionless, the watch will call emergency services, he added.'Crossroads'
Research firm CB Insights said Apple is at a “crossroads” a decade after introducing the iPhone.“But the next 'big one' -- a success and growth driver on the scale of the iPhone -- has not yet been determined.Will it be augmented reality, auto, wearables?Cook said Apple was nearing its two billionth device for its mobile operating system known as iOS.“We are about to hit a major milestone.We are about to ship our two billionth iOS device,” he said.“This is astonishing -- iOS has changed the way we live.


Passport control looks a little different in Dubai International Airport, the world's busiest for international travel. 
That's because the airport debuted a new “smart tunnel” that uses biometric technology, instead of human checks, to allow some air travellers to complete passport control in just 15 seconds. 
Passengers register at a kiosk before going through smart gates which use iris recognition to let them through.
Major General Mohammed Ahmed al-Marri, director-general at the General Directorate of Residency and Foreign Affairs, called it the “latest and most unique technology” and says the project has been in development for four years. 
For now, it's just business- and first-class passengers who can use the facilities.

That's because the airport debuted a new “smart tunnel” that uses biometric technology, instead of human checks, to allow some air travellers to complete passport control in just 15 seconds.Passengers register at a kiosk before going through smart gates which use iris recognition to let them through.For now, it's just business- and first-class passengers who can use the facilities.


Google has recently launched its Roman Urdu to Urdu Google Keyboard (Gboard) feature for both Android and iOS.
Gboard will also allow users to convert Roman texts to not just Urdu, but also into Sindhi, Punjabi and Kashmiri script, according to TJ.
Google already had full Urdu, Kashmiri and Sindhi text scripts in Gboard options.
Get Gboard's Roman Urdu to Urdu feature

Google has recently launched its Roman Urdu to Urdu Google Keyboard (Gboard) feature for both Android and iOS.Gboard will also allow users to convert Roman texts to not just Urdu, but also into Sindhi, Punjabi and Kashmiri script, according to TJ.Google already had full Urdu, Kashmiri and Sindhi text scripts in Gboard options.


According to data from market research firm GFK, OPPO was ranked on the second spot in Pakistan's 4G smartphone market for July 2017. 
The findings show that during the month of July, the OPPO F3, OPPO A57 and OPPO A37 were ranked among 5 most popular android phones in the 4G smartphone category. 
Other features include:
OPPO is gaining popularity as an emerging smartphone brand in Pakistan with some of its flagship models like the OPPO F3, OPPO A37 and OPPO A57 available at affordable prices with a range of features. 

According to data from market research firm GFK, OPPO was ranked on the second spot in Pakistan's 4G smartphone market for July 2017.The findings show that during the month of July, the OPPO F3, OPPO A57 and OPPO A37 were ranked among 5 most popular android phones in the 4G smartphone category.


Telenor Pakistan on Monday dispelled rumours of the discontinuation of its services after a fake notice attributed to the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) was circulated in this regard. 
Following the incident, a fake notification attributed to the PTA started circulating which said that Telenor services would no longer be available in Pakistan after December 11.
 
The 'notification' had urged all Telenor customers to use their mobile phone balances as soon as possible and to shift their money in Easypaisa accounts to a bank account or another network's account. PTA had told users that if they didn't want to change their cellphone numbers, they should switch them to another network by December 10.
A press release issued by the mobile network on Monday dispelled rumours of its closure and said: "The company remains committed to the country and is proud to serve millions of Pakistanis." 
Telenor Pakistan noted that PTA had also disowned the notice.
"The company has expressed gratitude to its customers for ignoring such rumours and fake messages," the press release stated.
Meanwhile, PTA also distanced itself from the fake notification and urged the public to check official sources such as the authority's website or social media pages.
 
"PTA is aware of a false advertisement circulating via WhatsApp chat groups for users of a mobile operator.
"PTA clarifies that the aforementioned advertisement is fake and would urge the public to refrain from circulating it, since it might generate confusion and inconvenience for consumers," PTA said in a tweet.
Desecration of the Quran
On November 16, an anti-Islam rally in Kristiansand, Norway had turned violent after its leader set fire to a copy of the Quran despite warnings from police officials.
Lars Thorsen, a leader of an anti-Islam group, set fire to a copy of the Quran while another leader of the far-right group Arne Tumyr desecrated two other copies of the holy book by throwing them into a trash bin during a demonstration organised by their organisation.
Videos that surfaced on social media showed a Muslim youth jumping over a fence and kicking the person burning the holy book. Police then intervened and took the anti-Islam protester and the Muslim youth into custody.
The incident drew nationwide condemnation, with many Pakistanis praising the youth as a hero for defending the Quran.
The Mayor of Kristiansand condemned the incident and expressed compassion for the city's Muslim community.

Following the incident, a fake notification attributed to the PTA started circulating which said that Telenor services would no longer be available in Pakistan after December 11.The 'notification' had urged all Telenor customers to use their mobile phone balances as soon as possible and to shift their money in Easypaisa accounts to a bank account or another network's account.PTA had told users that if they didn't want to change their cellphone numbers, they should switch them to another network by December 10.Telenor Pakistan noted that PTA had also disowned the notice."The company has expressed gratitude to its customers for ignoring such rumours and fake messages," the press release stated."PTA is aware of a false advertisement circulating via WhatsApp chat groups for users of a mobile operator.Lars Thorsen, a leader of an anti-Islam group, set fire to a copy of the Quran while another leader of the far-right group Arne Tumyr desecrated two other copies of the holy book by throwing them into a trash bin during a demonstration organised by their organisation.Police then intervened and took the anti-Islam protester and the Muslim youth into custody.The incident drew nationwide condemnation, with many Pakistanis praising the youth as a hero for defending the Quran.The Mayor of Kristiansand condemned the incident and expressed compassion for the city's Muslim community.


Jordan on Saturday banned the hugely popular but brutal online game PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds, citing its “negative effects” on the kingdom's citizens.
Often likened to the blockbuster book and film series “The Hunger Games”, PUBG pits marooned characters against each another in a virtual fight to the death, and has become one of the world's most popular mobile games.
A source in Jordan's Telecommunications Regulatory Authority warned the game “had negative effects on its users, which led to its being officially blocked”.
The move follows similar bans in Iraq, Nepal, the Indian state of Gujarat and the Indonesian province of Aceh.
In May, Chinese tech giant Tencent ceased offering the game, instead directing users to a newly launched and nearly identical programme it created.
PUBG is widely popular in Jordan and institutions in the kingdom have issued warnings to employees not to play it.
Psychologists in the country have repeatedly warned the game encourages violence and contributes to bullying among youth. 

Jordan on Saturday banned the hugely popular but brutal online game PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds, citing its “negative effects” on the kingdom's citizens.Often likened to the blockbuster book and film series “The Hunger Games”, PUBG pits marooned characters against each another in a virtual fight to the death, and has become one of the world's most popular mobile games.The move follows similar bans in Iraq, Nepal, the Indian state of Gujarat and the Indonesian province of Aceh.PUBG is widely popular in Jordan and institutions in the kingdom have issued warnings to employees not to play it.Psychologists in the country have repeatedly warned the game encourages violence and contributes to bullying among youth.


Newly launched Android game ‘Pak Truck Driver’ is arguably the most exciting driving game to have come out of Pakistan. By putting you behind the wheel of a beautifully decorated truck, it takes you through Pakistan’s breathtaking mountain ranges. 
Your task is to carry consignments from one location to another while ensuring minimum damage to the shipment. The narrow and dangerous roads, lofty speed breakers, and tricky curves add to difficulty and excitement.
The trucking experience of course, is not complete without the flamboyant truck horns and folk music in the background; and ‘Apex Logics’, the developers behind the game, have incorporated these elements into the game with style. 
Thumbs up for game play
'Pak Truck Driver' is crafted to incentivise good performance. 
You have two trucks in your garage but you must use only one to clear five levels before you earn keys to the second truck. 
The game is based on one long, continuous road, which is divided into multiple stops, through the mountains. 
Much like in real life, careless driving in the game will not only knock the goods out of your truck, but it will also cost you a life [in the game].
Overall, the game is simple but the last few levels stand out as much more challenging than the rest.
The 3D graphics are fairly pleasant. The blue sky, rocky, snow-top mountains, green pastures are a leaf out of one the world’s most beautiful destinations.
More positives: You are in control
It is always good to have multiple camera angles, although every time you end up sticking to one that gives you more control. 
'Pak Truck Driver' gives you the options of being the truck's driver and viewing your decked out truck rumble through the terrain from a slightly more distant angle. 
Not to worry – the different camera angles have no bearing over the game play.
Carrying logs, barrels, and boxes to their destination safely is the central theme of the game.
The suspension of the truck is fairly responsive. The truck reacts, as they do, when you apply the brakes or take sharp turns. 
What more; the tilt-to-turn feature may end up helping you burn a couple of calories!
The signature Pakistani truck horn is right there to be used. It may not have much use in the game but blowing it is fun nevertheless. 
Perhaps that is just the nature of our horns.
The downside: Unwanted banners
Of course this isn't the perfect truck driving game.
Ostensibly, banners and ads are the bread and butter of game developers but it isn't wise to have a banner pop up during game play. 
It affects your performance adversely, and causes unwanted hindrance. 
There is also a fair bit of room for improvement in the graphics department.
The back of the truck seems paper thin, the speedometer needle doesn’t move, and the dashboard is unrealistically flat and bland.
To expect subtlety in Pakistani truck art is plain naivety, yet it feels that the game developers went a bit over-the-top in painting those trucks. 
Some advice
While 'Pak Truck Driver' is a must-have for those into driving games, the developers can do a bit more to add quality to the player’s experience.  
It would be useful to have a scoring system based on the time travelled along integration with Google Play to track records and progress of the players. 
Newer locations, fresher terrains, and a wider variety of trucks are the requirements of this game. 
Another feature that could have been improved was the presence of other cars on the roads, as it would be an effective way to increase difficulty and make the experience more exciting for the player.
Nonetheless, this is a novel idea which is executed with style. 
The author is a graphic designer and freelance writer with a focus on tech.

By putting you behind the wheel of a beautifully decorated truck, it takes you through Pakistan’s breathtaking mountain ranges.Your task is to carry consignments from one location to another while ensuring minimum damage to the shipment.The narrow and dangerous roads, lofty speed breakers, and tricky curves add to difficulty and excitement.The trucking experience of course, is not complete without the flamboyant truck horns and folk music in the background; and ‘Apex Logics’, the developers behind the game, have incorporated these elements into the game with style.The 3D graphics are fairly pleasant.'Pak Truck Driver' gives you the options of being the truck's driver and viewing your decked out truck rumble through the terrain from a slightly more distant angle.Not to worry – the different camera angles have no bearing over the game play.Carrying logs, barrels, and boxes to their destination safely is the central theme of the game.The suspension of the truck is fairly responsive.The truck reacts, as they do, when you apply the brakes or take sharp turns.What more; the tilt-to-turn feature may end up helping you burn a couple of calories!The signature Pakistani truck horn is right there to be used.It may not have much use in the game but blowing it is fun nevertheless.Perhaps that is just the nature of our horns.It affects your performance adversely, and causes unwanted hindrance.There is also a fair bit of room for improvement in the graphics department.The back of the truck seems paper thin, the speedometer needle doesn’t move, and the dashboard is unrealistically flat and bland.To expect subtlety in Pakistani truck art is plain naivety, yet it feels that the game developers went a bit over-the-top in painting those trucks.Newer locations, fresher terrains, and a wider variety of trucks are the requirements of this game.Nonetheless, this is a novel idea which is executed with style.The author is a graphic designer and freelance writer with a focus on tech.


PARIS: When Jak found the online marketplace Etsy, it seemed like the perfect match: a tech platform for small traders to sell handmade items that promised to be a creative outlet and bring tidy profits.
Five years later, Jak is one of the thousands in open rebellion against the place they once saw as a safe haven — part of a growing trend of users rising up against tech platforms.
"We were lured in with the 'shop small' slogans and low fees and useful marketplace, and then once everyone had built their stores up, they started to tighten their grip and bleed us dry," said the 30-year-old, who runs an online shop from Glasgow in Scotland and asked their surname not be used.
New York-based Etsy, which boasts sales of $5 billion a year from around five million sellers and 90 million buyers, drew fury for hiking the fees it charges its small traders.
More than 10,000 of its sellers closed their shops for a week from April 11, in effect going on strike.
It came weeks after users of video-sharing platform Vimeo expressed outrage at a similar price hike, and users of social media platform OnlyFans forced the owners to abandon a proposal to ban explicit content.
Amazon has had countless battles with its sellers -- a recent survey in Germany concluded almost 80% were unhappy with their relationship with the e-commerce giant.
And Uber faces frequent unrest -- Indian drivers are currently refusing to turn on air-conditioning in protest at spiralling fuel prices and low fares.
"We're entering a period of revolt and rebellion now," said Vili Lehdonvirta, a professor from Oxford University who tackles the power of tech platforms in a forthcoming book "Cloud Empires".
While he reckons many of these rebellions have a limited chance of short-term success, the long-term outlook is not a foregone conclusion.
'Etsy gouges us'
The breaking point for Etsy sellers was a letter from the firm announcing the platform would take a 6.5% cut on each sale instead of 5%.
The rationale, according to the firm, was to invest in marketing and entice more buyers.
Kristi Cassidy, who sells gothic-style costumes and wedding dresses from Rhode Island in the United States, spearheaded the campaign to overhaul the new policy.
"Rather than rewarding the sellers whose hard work has enabled Etsy to become one of the most profitable tech companies in the world, Etsy gouges us, ignores us and patronizes us," she wrote in an online petition now boasting more than 80,000 signatures.
Sellers from around the world rallied to her call and complaints began to flood social media.
"I live in constant fear of getting a reserve put on my account," said Jak.
Etsy can withhold or "reserve" a percentage of a seller's income for up to 90 days if they suspect sales are not legitimate.
"They can seemingly do this for any reason they fancy," Jak said.
Other sellers accused the platform of allowing the marketplace to be flooded with sweatshop-produced tat, or imposing an onerous surveillance system.
Etsy boss Josh Silverman told the Wall Street Journal recently that the firm was always listening to its sellers and made changes only to benefit them.
"When we look at our fees compared to other platforms... we think it's a very fair value exchange," he said.
'Boiling a frog'
Lehdonvirta has seen this pattern before, particularly with Amazon and eBay.
Tech platforms create walled gardens where buyers and sellers are protected from cybercriminals and fraudsters, and standards of quality are guaranteed.
Then they become too dominant.
"We end up in a situation where they are the de facto rulers of online commerce and now they're starting to turn on their people -- like all autocrats throughout history," he said.
Labour market specialist Werner Eichhorst of German think tank IZA said tech firms like Etsy, Uber and food-delivery outfits operated "highly ambiguous" systems that allowed "complete ownership and surveillance power over their clients".
But he said Etsy investors seemed much more interested in profitability than in the wellbeing of sellers, so he would not be surprised if the platform raised its fees still further.
Both analysts, though, said that those who rely on platforms for their livelihoods could emerge victorious by joining together in cooperatives or establishing different platforms.
"They can get away with slowly boiling a frog, but if there is a perceived transgression of norms, something is done that is just so egregious, then people rise up," said Lehdonvirta, suggesting Etsy was at that moment.
Eichhorst also reached for a bleak animal metaphor: "You cannot milk the cows and at the same time kill them."

PARIS: When Jak found the online marketplace Etsy, it seemed like the perfect match: a tech platform for small traders to sell handmade items that promised to be a creative outlet and bring tidy profits.More than 10,000 of its sellers closed their shops for a week from April 11, in effect going on strike.Amazon has had countless battles with its sellers -- a recent survey in Germany concluded almost 80% were unhappy with their relationship with the e-commerce giant."We're entering a period of revolt and rebellion now," said Vili Lehdonvirta, a professor from Oxford University who tackles the power of tech platforms in a forthcoming book "Cloud Empires".While he reckons many of these rebellions have a limited chance of short-term success, the long-term outlook is not a foregone conclusion.The rationale, according to the firm, was to invest in marketing and entice more buyers."Rather than rewarding the sellers whose hard work has enabled Etsy to become one of the most profitable tech companies in the world, Etsy gouges us, ignores us and patronizes us," she wrote in an online petition now boasting more than 80,000 signatures.Sellers from around the world rallied to her call and complaints began to flood social media."I live in constant fear of getting a reserve put on my account," said Jak.Etsy can withhold or "reserve" a percentage of a seller's income for up to 90 days if they suspect sales are not legitimate."They can seemingly do this for any reason they fancy," Jak said.Other sellers accused the platform of allowing the marketplace to be flooded with sweatshop-produced tat, or imposing an onerous surveillance system."When we look at our fees compared to other platforms... we think it's a very fair value exchange," he said.'Boiling a frog'
Lehdonvirta has seen this pattern before, particularly with Amazon and eBay.Then they become too dominant."We end up in a situation where they are the de facto rulers of online commerce and now they're starting to turn on their people -- like all autocrats throughout history," he said.Both analysts, though, said that those who rely on platforms for their livelihoods could emerge victorious by joining together in cooperatives or establishing different platforms.Eichhorst also reached for a bleak animal metaphor: "You cannot milk the cows and at the same time kill them."


MEXICO: Could a volcanic eruption off Mexico's coast unleash a tsunami like the one that devastated Tonga? What really causes tectonic plates to shift and trigger earthquakes? Scientists visited a remote archipelago in search of answers.
Located in the Pacific Ocean several hundred kilometers from the Mexican coast, the Revillagigedo Islands are known as "Mexico's Galapagos" due to their isolation and biodiversity.
One of the archipelago's volcanos, Barcena, last erupted spectacularly in 1953, and another Evermann, in 1993. Both remain active today.
Located on a mid-ocean ridge, the four islands, which were added to the UNESCO World Heritage list in 2016, are uninhabited apart from navy personnel, and access is tightly restricted.
Getting there takes about 24 hours or more by boat and few civilians visit apart from scuba drivers lured by giant manta rays, humpback whales, dolphins and sharks.
Last month, an international team of 10 scientists carried out a week-long mission whose aims included trying to determine if — or more likely when — there will be another volcanic eruption.
"What we're trying to find is how explosive these volcanos can be and how dangerous," said the group's leader, Douwe van Hinsbergen, a professor at Utrecht University in the Netherlands.
Challenging convention
The worry is that something similar to the cataclysmic eruption of the Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai volcano in January could send a tsunami hurtling towards Mexico's Pacific Coast.
"Whenever there are active island volcanos, there are always possibilities of generating tsunamis," said Pablo Davila Harris, a geologist at Mexico's Institute for Scientific and Technological Research of San Luis Potosi.
"What we volcanologists are looking for is when the next eruption is going to happen," using modeling based on previous volcanic activity, he added.
The team also hopes that its analysis of minerals brought up by past eruptions will help to understand the motion of tectonic plates, which cause earthquakes and volcanic activity.
"Plates move over mantle. Is the mantle pushing the plates? Is the mantle doing nothing?" van Hinsbergen said.
According to conventional theory, convection — the mantle's motion caused by the transfer of heat from the Earth's core to the outer layer — causes tectonic plates to move and grind against each other.
Van Hinsbergen's hypothesis is that the mantle is in fact "a big lake of rock that is essentially not convecting," which he said would require a complete rethink.
"If that is true, then everything that we see, at least on timescales of tens of millions of years and shorter, is driven by gravity pulling plates down. And that would make the whole system a lot simpler," he said.
The mission received funding from a Dutch program for — in van Hinsbergen's words — "ideas that are almost certainly wrong but if they're not they will have big implications."
The samples collected have been taken to Europe for analysis and the results are expected to be known later this year.

What really causes tectonic plates to shift and trigger earthquakes?Scientists visited a remote archipelago in search of answers.Located in the Pacific Ocean several hundred kilometers from the Mexican coast, the Revillagigedo Islands are known as "Mexico's Galapagos" due to their isolation and biodiversity.One of the archipelago's volcanos, Barcena, last erupted spectacularly in 1953, and another Evermann, in 1993.Both remain active today."What we're trying to find is how explosive these volcanos can be and how dangerous," said the group's leader, Douwe van Hinsbergen, a professor at Utrecht University in the Netherlands.Challenging convention
The worry is that something similar to the cataclysmic eruption of the Hunga Tonga-Hunga Ha'apai volcano in January could send a tsunami hurtling towards Mexico's Pacific Coast."Plates move over mantle.Is the mantle pushing the plates?Is the mantle doing nothing?"van Hinsbergen said.According to conventional theory, convection — the mantle's motion caused by the transfer of heat from the Earth's core to the outer layer — causes tectonic plates to move and grind against each other.And that would make the whole system a lot simpler," he said.The mission received funding from a Dutch program for — in van Hinsbergen's words — "ideas that are almost certainly wrong but if they're not they will have big implications."The samples collected have been taken to Europe for analysis and the results are expected to be known later this year.


TikTok, the world's premier short-form video platform, has deleted over 6.5 million videos uploaded by Pakistanis. Pakistan became the third country in the world with massive removal of videos from the platform between October 1, 2021, and December 30, 2021.
The report reflects the platform’s ongoing commitment to earn trust by being accountable while working to be safe and welcoming. Efforts include fostering authentic engagement across the comment space, safety reminders for creators, and adhering strictly to the extensive community guidelines. 
The reports showed that 94.1% of videos were removed within 24 hours of being posted for violating community guidelines, while 95.2% were removed before a user reported them and 90.1% were removed before the videos had any views. 
Removing content at zero views improved by 14.7% for harassment and bullying content, 10.9% for hateful behaviour, 16.2% for violent extremism, and 7.7% for dangerous acts.
To date, the steadfast progress on removing content that violates the community guidelines prior to receiving any views improved by 14.7% for harassment and bullying content, 10.9% for hateful behaviour, 16.2% for violent extremism, and 7.7% for dangerous acts.
A TikTok official said: “At TikTok, we believe our community should be built on a foundation of respect, kindness, and understanding. To help people forge positive digital connections in line with our rules for appropriate behaviour, we strive to empower our users to stay in control of their interactions with others on TikTok. 
There's no finish line when it comes to keeping people safe, and our latest report and continued safety improvements reflect our ongoing commitment to the well-being of our community.”
Alongside the platform’s work to proactively remove abusive and hateful content or behaviour that violates community guidelines, it is exploring new ways to help everyone feel more in control over comments through authentic engagement. This spans testing ways in which users can identify comments they believe to be irrelevant or inappropriate, such as through disliking comments. 
The community feedback collated will add to the range of factors already in use to help keep the comment section consistently relevant and a place for genuine engagement. In addition to this, to avoid demoralising creators, only the person who registered a dislike on a comment will be able to see that they have done so.
To further streamline finding and using the plethora of built-in safety tools offered, TikTok is experimenting with safety reminders that will guide creators to comment filtering and bulk block and delete options. The reminders will be displayed to creators whose videos appear to be receiving a high proportion of negative comments. 
In parallel the platform will continue to remove comments that violate its stringent community guidelines, building on the already available tools such as the ability to filter comments on content, delete, and report multiple comments at once. 

TikTok, the world's premier short-form video platform, has deleted over 6.5 million videos uploaded by Pakistanis.Pakistan became the third country in the world with massive removal of videos from the platform between October 1, 2021, and December 30, 2021.The report reflects the platform’s ongoing commitment to earn trust by being accountable while working to be safe and welcoming.The reports showed that 94.1% of videos were removed within 24 hours of being posted for violating community guidelines, while 95.2% were removed before a user reported them and 90.1% were removed before the videos had any views.Removing content at zero views improved by 14.7% for harassment and bullying content, 10.9% for hateful behaviour, 16.2% for violent extremism, and 7.7% for dangerous acts.A TikTok official said: “At TikTok, we believe our community should be built on a foundation of respect, kindness, and understanding.There's no finish line when it comes to keeping people safe, and our latest report and continued safety improvements reflect our ongoing commitment to the well-being of our community.”
Alongside the platform’s work to proactively remove abusive and hateful content or behaviour that violates community guidelines, it is exploring new ways to help everyone feel more in control over comments through authentic engagement.This spans testing ways in which users can identify comments they believe to be irrelevant or inappropriate, such as through disliking comments.In addition to this, to avoid demoralising creators, only the person who registered a dislike on a comment will be able to see that they have done so.The reminders will be displayed to creators whose videos appear to be receiving a high proportion of negative comments.


SAN FRANCISCO: As tempting as access to Elon Musk's wealth may be, Twitter is not eager to be ruled by a billionaire known for shooting from the hip with little regard for the consequences.
The global one-to-many messaging platform is moving to prevent the Tesla boss from getting his hands on all of Twitter's outstanding shares, signalling that worries about where he would lead the company to outweigh the proffered payoff.
"It's management, the board, that feels something is wrong," said Endpoint Technologies analyst Roger Kay.
"Musk is essentially an autocrat; his form of libertarianism has a twinge of far-right politics to it."
Earlier this month Musk, the world's richest person and a controversial and frequent user of Twitter himself, made an unsolicited bid of $43 million for the social media network, citing better freedom of speech as a motivation.
The offer, which he said was final, values Twitter at $54.20 per share -- above the closing price ahead of his bid, but below a high of $77.06 hit in February of last year.
Twitter's board opted to swallow a "poison pill," saying any acquisition of over 15% of the firm's stock without its OK would trigger a plan to flood the market with shares and thus make a buyout much harder.
Musk already owns more than 9% of the company, making him its largest stakeholder.
The billionaire went on to tweet "Love me tender," an Elvis Presley song title that some took to hint he is mulling whether to sidestep the board and take his "tender" directly to shareholders.
"I think he is running with scissors," said analyst Rob Enderle of Enderle Group.
"Poor impulse control and too much money are not a good combination."
Right-wing Twitter?
Musk has said he'd like to lift the veil on the algorithm that runs on the platform, even allowing people to look through it and suggest changes.
He advocates a hands-off approach to policing content, a thorny matter, particularly in high-profile cases such as that of former US president Donald Trump, who was banned after the assault on the Capitol by his supporters as they sought to overturn the US election result last year.
"Musk says he is going to turn Twitter into a social media platform with no moderation; there have been several of those and they don't work," said analyst Rob Enderle of Enderle Group.
"The trolls take over, they get too hostile and drive people away from the platform."
Attempts to make "right-wing Twitter" have failed to gain traction, the analyst told AFP, giving examples such as Parler and Trump's own social network.
Musk has said that he is averse to banning people from Twitter due to misbehaviour, prompting many to believe that if he owned the platform he would allow Trump to return.
Despite his free speech talk, Musk's actions include mocking a Tesla whistleblower, and calling a rescue worker who pointed out flaws in the Tesla chief's idea to save children from a flooded cave in Thailand several years ago "a pedo guy."
"Musk is not exactly a free speech advocate," Enderle said.
"I think he just doesn't like to be told 'no'."
Business specifics of Musk's vision for Twitter are lean, noted Creative Strategies analyst Carolina Milanesi.
"I don't think anybody would argue that everything Elon Musk does he does for himself," Milanesi said.
"You hear at Tesla of racism, lack of unions, and the way workers are treated and it doesn't seem to me that his priorities are in the right place."
 Regulatory ire
The Twitter board is likely also concerned about how Musk taking over the company might intensify pressure to fight misinformation on social media platforms.
"Twitter might be thinking about what regulators are going to do if Musk takes over," Milanesi said.
"Twitter has already had enough scrutiny, and they will have more if Musk buys it."
While the serial entrepreneur's net worth is estimated at $265 billion by Forbes, much of Musk's wealth coming from shares of electric car maker Tesla, which he runs.
Moody's estimated it would cost Musk $39 billion to buy all the outstanding Twitter shares, and that there would be "a strong chance" he would have to repay or refinance the San Francisco-based company's billions of dollars of existing debt.
Rumours circulating include talk that Musk is looking into teaming up with a deep-pocketed partner.
Not all analysts were pessimistic, with some pointing to Musk's record as a trailblazer as a positive in his Twitter bid.
"You cannot deny what Musk's accomplished," said RiskSmith investing chief executive Richard Smith.
"I think he could probably transform Twitter."

"It's management, the board, that feels something is wrong," said Endpoint Technologies analyst Roger Kay."Musk is essentially an autocrat; his form of libertarianism has a twinge of far-right politics to it."Earlier this month Musk, the world's richest person and a controversial and frequent user of Twitter himself, made an unsolicited bid of $43 million for the social media network, citing better freedom of speech as a motivation.Musk already owns more than 9% of the company, making him its largest stakeholder."Poor impulse control and too much money are not a good combination."Right-wing Twitter?Musk has said he'd like to lift the veil on the algorithm that runs on the platform, even allowing people to look through it and suggest changes."Musk says he is going to turn Twitter into a social media platform with no moderation; there have been several of those and they don't work," said analyst Rob Enderle of Enderle Group."The trolls take over, they get too hostile and drive people away from the platform."Despite his free speech talk, Musk's actions include mocking a Tesla whistleblower, and calling a rescue worker who pointed out flaws in the Tesla chief's idea to save children from a flooded cave in Thailand several years ago "a pedo guy.""I think he just doesn't like to be told 'no'.""I don't think anybody would argue that everything Elon Musk does he does for himself," Milanesi said."Twitter might be thinking about what regulators are going to do if Musk takes over," Milanesi said."Twitter has already had enough scrutiny, and they will have more if Musk buys it."While the serial entrepreneur's net worth is estimated at $265 billion by Forbes, much of Musk's wealth coming from shares of electric car maker Tesla, which he runs.Moody's estimated it would cost Musk $39 billion to buy all the outstanding Twitter shares, and that there would be "a strong chance" he would have to repay or refinance the San Francisco-based company's billions of dollars of existing debt.Rumours circulating include talk that Musk is looking into teaming up with a deep-pocketed partner.Not all analysts were pessimistic, with some pointing to Musk's record as a trailblazer as a positive in his Twitter bid."You cannot deny what Musk's accomplished," said RiskSmith investing chief executive Richard Smith."I think he could probably transform Twitter."


HONG KONG: YouTube on Wednesday suspended a channel promoting John Lee's uncontested bid to be Hong Kong's next leader, saying the move was required by US sanctions against the ex-security chief.
Lee is expected to be appointed the business hub's new chief executive by a committee of 1,500 Beijing loyalists next month. He faces no rivals.
He has used YouTube, Facebook and Instagram accounts to promote his platform, although no concrete policies have been published so far.
Asked about his removal from YouTube, Lee condemned the US sanctions as "unreasonable bullying" for his work defending China's national security.
"The so-called sanctions... are meant to impose pressure and make me hesitate," he told reporters.
"But their unreasonable moves will only reinforce my belief that I have been doing the right thing."
Lee said while he was "disappointed" with YouTube's decision, his push to become the city's next leader would not be affected, adding that he would start visiting local communities after pandemic social-distancing rules are relaxed Thursday.
A former top cop who rose to become Hong Kong's security tsar, Lee was a key figure in the suppression of huge democracy protests three years ago and the subsequent Beijing-directed crackdown.
Parent company Google defended removing the channel, saying it was made in compliance with US sanctions that ban American companies and individuals from providing services to targeted officials.
"After review and consistent with these policies, we terminated the Johnlee2022 YouTube channel," a company spokesperson said.
Meta told AFP on Wednesday that Lee was able to maintain Facebook and Instagram accounts because they were "demonetised".
"We have taken steps to prevent the use of payments services," a Meta spokesperson said.
Tam Yiu-chung, a top adviser for Lee as well as Hong Kong's sole representative to China's top lawmaking body, also criticised YouTube's decision.
"They simply said we have violated their relevant policies," Tam said. "We find this completely unreasonable."
"They cannot stop us from disseminating the information for our campaign and our candidate to the public," he added.
Lee was among 11 top Hong Kong and Beijing officials sanctioned by the US Treasury in 2020 in the wake of China's imposition of a sweeping security law aimed at snuffing out dissent in the financial hub.
Other officials sanctioned include outgoing Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam, former police chiefs Chris Tang and Stephen Lo, as well as Secretary for Justice Teresa Cheng.
Lam once joked she had to keep piles of cash at home now that she was locked out of the international banking system by the sanctions.
China deploys its "Great Firewall" to block citizens from accessing Western social media platforms, but allows its officials, diplomats and state media to use them.
Hong Kong does not currently restrict access to Western social media, but its reputation as a press freedom bastion has plunged in the wake of the current crackdown.

He faces no rivals.He has used YouTube, Facebook and Instagram accounts to promote his platform, although no concrete policies have been published so far.Asked about his removal from YouTube, Lee condemned the US sanctions as "unreasonable bullying" for his work defending China's national security."The so-called sanctions... are meant to impose pressure and make me hesitate," he told reporters."But their unreasonable moves will only reinforce my belief that I have been doing the right thing."A former top cop who rose to become Hong Kong's security tsar, Lee was a key figure in the suppression of huge democracy protests three years ago and the subsequent Beijing-directed crackdown."After review and consistent with these policies, we terminated the Johnlee2022 YouTube channel," a company spokesperson said.Meta told AFP on Wednesday that Lee was able to maintain Facebook and Instagram accounts because they were "demonetised"."We have taken steps to prevent the use of payments services," a Meta spokesperson said."They simply said we have violated their relevant policies," Tam said."We find this completely unreasonable.""They cannot stop us from disseminating the information for our campaign and our candidate to the public," he added.Lam once joked she had to keep piles of cash at home now that she was locked out of the international banking system by the sanctions.Hong Kong does not currently restrict access to Western social media, but its reputation as a press freedom bastion has plunged in the wake of the current crackdown.


According to the WhatsApp news tracker, a few days ago, the meta-owned company released the new WhatsApp beta for Android 2.22.9.13 update, bringing the ability to certain beta testers to use this feature, and the new 2.22.10.2 beta update helps more users receive the same feature.
Under the new feature, some beta testers can now change the app language by going on WhatsApp Settings > App language.
“A similar feature was already available in certain countries (for example, India) and it was available in WhatsApp Settings > Chats,” it noted, adding that WhatsApp is now releasing the feature regardless of your country and with a new user interface.

According to the WhatsApp news tracker, a few days ago, the meta-owned company released the new WhatsApp beta for Android 2.22.9.13 update, bringing the ability to certain beta testers to use this feature, and the new 2.22.10.2 beta update helps more users receive the same feature.Under the new feature, some beta testers can now change the app language by going on WhatsApp Settings > App language.


WASHINGTON: Twitter moved Friday to defend itself against Elon Musk's $43 billion hostile takeover bid, announcing a plan that would allow shareholders to purchase additional stock.
Musk's proposal faces uncertainty on multiple fronts, including possible rejection and the challenge of assembling the cash, but could have wide-reaching impacts on the social media service if consummated.
Twitter's board has unanimously adopted a so-called shareholder rights plan, also known as a "poison pill," as the struggle for control of the social media platform intensified.
"The Rights Plan will reduce the likelihood that any entity, person or group gains control of Twitter through open market accumulation without paying all shareholders an appropriate control premium," Twitter said in a statement.
Musk sent shockwaves through the tech world on Thursday with an unsolicited bid to buy the company, stating the promotion of freedom of speech on Twitter as a key reason for what he called his "best and final offer."
The world's richest person offered $54.20 a share, which values the social media firm at some $43 billion, in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission made public on Thursday.
Musk told a conference in Canada that he was "not sure" he would succeed and acknowledged a "plan B" but refused to elaborate, though in the filing he noted a rejection would make him consider selling his shares.
Musk last week disclosed purchase of 73.5 million shares — or 9.2% — of Twitter's common stock, an announcement that sent its shares soaring more than 25%.
The board's "rights plan" kicks in if a buyer takes 15% or more of Twitter's outstanding common stock in a transaction not approved by the board.
Musk said he "could technically afford" the buyout while offering no information on financing, though he would likely need to borrow money or part with some of his mountain of Tesla or SpaceX shares.
Despite saying he wanted to take the company private, he said the firm would keep up to 2,000 investors — the maximum allowed.
Some investors have already spoken against the proposal, including businessman and Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal.
Morningstar Research analysts echoed that perspective, saying, "While the board will take the Tesla CEO's offer into consideration, we believe the probability of Twitter accepting it is likely below 50%."
Twitter stock closed down nearly two percent Thursday.
Musk's move throws another curve into the roller-coaster ride of his volatile relationship with the global social media service, and raises many questions about what comes next.
He was offered a seat on the board but turned it down over the weekend.
Musk breaks the mold as a business figure, even in the Silicon Valley world known for disrupting markets and changing lifestyles.
The serial entrepreneur's endeavors include driving a shift to electric vehicles with Tesla, private space exploration and linking computers with brains.

WASHINGTON: Twitter moved Friday to defend itself against Elon Musk's $43 billion hostile takeover bid, announcing a plan that would allow shareholders to purchase additional stock.Musk's proposal faces uncertainty on multiple fronts, including possible rejection and the challenge of assembling the cash, but could have wide-reaching impacts on the social media service if consummated.Twitter's board has unanimously adopted a so-called shareholder rights plan, also known as a "poison pill," as the struggle for control of the social media platform intensified.The board's "rights plan" kicks in if a buyer takes 15% or more of Twitter's outstanding common stock in a transaction not approved by the board.Musk said he "could technically afford" the buyout while offering no information on financing, though he would likely need to borrow money or part with some of his mountain of Tesla or SpaceX shares.Despite saying he wanted to take the company private, he said the firm would keep up to 2,000 investors — the maximum allowed.Some investors have already spoken against the proposal, including businessman and Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal.Morningstar Research analysts echoed that perspective, saying, "While the board will take the Tesla CEO's offer into consideration, we believe the probability of Twitter accepting it is likely below 50%."Twitter stock closed down nearly two percent Thursday.He was offered a seat on the board but turned it down over the weekend.Musk breaks the mold as a business figure, even in the Silicon Valley world known for disrupting markets and changing lifestyles.


PARIS: The European Space Agency on Wednesday ended cooperation with Russia on three missions to the Moon due to Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, following a previous decision to do the same for a Mars mission.
The ESA said it would "discontinue cooperative activities" on Luna-25, 26 and 27, a series of Russian lunar missions on which the European agency had aimed to test new equipment and technology.
In late March, collaboration on ExoMars, a plan to land a rover on Mars to drill into the soil and search for signs of life, was suspended as well.
"As with ExoMars, the Russian aggression against Ukraine and the resulting sanctions put in place represent a fundamental change of circumstances and make it impossible for ESA to implement the planned lunar cooperation," the ESA said in a statement.
The ESA had planned to have a navigation camera called Pilot-D on the Luna-25 probe, whose launch is scheduled for this summer.
ESA Director-General Josef Aschbacher told a press briefing the camera was going to be dismantled and taken off the launch, and that Russia's space agency, Roscosmos, had already been informed.
The ESA is looking for other options and partners to test the technology that would have formed part of the Russian missions, it said, adding some had already been found.
An alternative mission for Pilot-D "is already being procured from a commercial service provider", the agency said.
Equipment including a lunar drill originally planned for Luna-27 will now be launched on a NASA-led mission instead.
A study on new options for the ExoMars components was being fast-tracked as well, the ESA said.
That mission had been supposed to launch in September.

PARIS: The European Space Agency on Wednesday ended cooperation with Russia on three missions to the Moon due to Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, following a previous decision to do the same for a Mars mission.The ESA said it would "discontinue cooperative activities" on Luna-25, 26 and 27, a series of Russian lunar missions on which the European agency had aimed to test new equipment and technology.The ESA had planned to have a navigation camera called Pilot-D on the Luna-25 probe, whose launch is scheduled for this summer.An alternative mission for Pilot-D "is already being procured from a commercial service provider", the agency said.Equipment including a lunar drill originally planned for Luna-27 will now be launched on a NASA-led mission instead.A study on new options for the ExoMars components was being fast-tracked as well, the ESA said.That mission had been supposed to launch in September.


SAN FRANCISCO: Twitter CEO Sunday said that Elon Musk, who is now a majority shareholder of the company, will not be joining the company’s board.
Musk was named to join the Twitter board after buying a major stake in the firm and becoming its largest shareholder.
"Elon has decided not to join our board," Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal tweeted.
"Elon’s appointment to the board was to become officially effective 4/9, but Elon shared that same morning he will no longer be joining the board," Agrawal said.
"I believe this is for the best."
Agrawal had announced on Tuesday that Musk would be joining the board, describing him as "a passionate believer and intense critic of the service which is exactly what we need".
Musk himself tweeted that he was "Looking forward to working with Parag & Twitter board to make significant improvements to Twitter in coming months!"
In his announcement Sunday, Agrawal shared a note he sent to Twitter, which said Musk’s appointment to the board would be contingent on a background check and that he would have to act in the best interests of the company once appointed.
"Elon is our biggest shareholder and we will remain open to his input," Agrawal added.
Polarizing figure
In an apparent reaction to the news, Musk tweeted a smirking emoji, without any other comment.
The billionaire tech entrepreneur is a frequent Twitter user, regularly mixing in inflammatory and controversial statements about issues or other public figures with remarks that are whimsical or business-focused.
He has also sparred repeatedly with federal securities regulators, who cracked down on his social media use after a purported effort to take Tesla private in 2018 fell apart.
Musk’s decision not to take a seat on the Twitter board came after he tweeted Saturday asking whether the social media network was "dying" and to call out users such as singer Justin Bieber, who are highly followed but rarely post.
"Most of these ‘top’ accounts tweet rarely and post very little content," the Tesla boss wrote, captioning a list of the 10 profiles with the most followers -- a list which includes himself at number eight, with 81 million followers.
"Is Twitter dying?" he asked.
An outspoken and polarizing figure, the announcement of his appointment to the board had sparked misgiving among some Twitter employees, according to a Washington Post report.
Workers at the California-based social media company cited worries about Musk’s statements on transgender issues and his reputation as a difficult and driven leader, according to statements on Slack reviewed by the Post.
A California agency has sued Tesla, alleging discrimination and harassment against Black workers. The electric carmaker has rejected the charges, saying it opposes discrimination.

"Elon has decided not to join our board," Twitter CEO Parag Agrawal tweeted."Elon’s appointment to the board was to become officially effective 4/9, but Elon shared that same morning he will no longer be joining the board," Agrawal said."I believe this is for the best."In his announcement Sunday, Agrawal shared a note he sent to Twitter, which said Musk’s appointment to the board would be contingent on a background check and that he would have to act in the best interests of the company once appointed."Elon is our biggest shareholder and we will remain open to his input," Agrawal added.Polarizing figure
In an apparent reaction to the news, Musk tweeted a smirking emoji, without any other comment.Musk’s decision not to take a seat on the Twitter board came after he tweeted Saturday asking whether the social media network was "dying" and to call out users such as singer Justin Bieber, who are highly followed but rarely post."Most of these ‘top’ accounts tweet rarely and post very little content," the Tesla boss wrote, captioning a list of the 10 profiles with the most followers -- a list which includes himself at number eight, with 81 million followers."Is Twitter dying?"he asked.A California agency has sued Tesla, alleging discrimination and harassment against Black workers.The electric carmaker has rejected the charges, saying it opposes discrimination.


Many other companies have tried to harness crypto payments before abandoning their efforts, Tesla and Dell among them.
Bitcoin will almost certainly never be practical for everyday purchases because its value fluctuates wildly, and each transaction is expensive, energy-hungry and takes at least half an hour.
But there are now thousands of smaller cryptocurrencies with faster processing times and more stable prices.
Analysts say the total market value of cryptocurrencies has now topped $2 trillion, roughly half of which is bitcoin.
Companies are gagging to get in on the act and developers like Cronje are building the infrastructure to enable the virtual coins to be used to pay for everyday items.
But public buy-in is crucial, and corporations seem to be struggling to find the perfect formula.
'Watch the jockeying'
Microsoft typifies the emerging pattern of big companies dabbling in crypto.
The first rule: keep it at arm's length from the core business.
The tech giant has stressed that shareholders will not be exposed to the ups and downs of crypto prices.
PayPal and Apple, two other crypto-curious corporations, have made similar pledges to their shareholders.
To keep crypto off its balance sheet, Microsoft partnered with a firm called Bakkt that allows clients to convert crypto assets into products like gift cards for Xbox, or charge their Starbucks payment card.
Bakkt, which has received investments from Microsoft's venture capital fund M12, went public last year and a flurry of big partnership announcements with the likes of Mastercard sent its share price soaring.
But then came the nose-dive as it reported widening losses and its business came under scrutiny.
The firm had said it expected to have nine million customers by the end of 2021, yet its executives gave a figure of 1.7 million transacting accounts late last year.
PayPal, meanwhile, garnered a lot of publicity for a "checkout with crypto" feature launched in the US and UK last year.
PayPal's system converts users' cryptoassets into money before passing on payment to the vendors.
Market watchers say it is too early to tell how these forays into crypto will play out.
"My view is to not get too excited yet but just watch the jockeying," said analyst John Freeman of CFRA research, accepting the hot air made it difficult to predict what would happen next.
'When, not if'
The barriers to widespread adoption of direct crypto payments for everyday items are considerable — perhaps even unsurmountable.
Developer Cronje said he functioned largely without the need for regular cash or banks by using services like BitPay and BitRefill, which allow crypto to be spent anywhere from Amazon to Uber.
But he accepted his less tech-savvy friends "would be broke very quickly" if they tried to rely on the blockchain, the technology that underpins cryptocurrencies.
Instead, he envisages a future where people will continue to use credit cards and banks but back-end tasks will be largely automated on the blockchain.
"This is a technology that conservatively is going to save them between 20 percent and 25 per cent of their overheads and their costs," he said.
"So it's not a matter of if, it´s a matter of when."
Meanwhile, non-financial businesses will continue to throw themselves into the crypto space, often to emerge slightly wiser but no richer.
The Pavilions hotel chain, for example, partnered with a payments firm last year to allow customers to use crypto but found it made little difference to its business.
"It has shown us that bitcoin is more an investment tool than something people wish to part with for payment."

Many other companies have tried to harness crypto payments before abandoning their efforts, Tesla and Dell among them.Bitcoin will almost certainly never be practical for everyday purchases because its value fluctuates wildly, and each transaction is expensive, energy-hungry and takes at least half an hour.But there are now thousands of smaller cryptocurrencies with faster processing times and more stable prices.Companies are gagging to get in on the act and developers like Cronje are building the infrastructure to enable the virtual coins to be used to pay for everyday items.But public buy-in is crucial, and corporations seem to be struggling to find the perfect formula.'Watch the jockeying'
Microsoft typifies the emerging pattern of big companies dabbling in crypto.The first rule: keep it at arm's length from the core business.The tech giant has stressed that shareholders will not be exposed to the ups and downs of crypto prices.PayPal and Apple, two other crypto-curious corporations, have made similar pledges to their shareholders.Bakkt, which has received investments from Microsoft's venture capital fund M12, went public last year and a flurry of big partnership announcements with the likes of Mastercard sent its share price soaring.But then came the nose-dive as it reported widening losses and its business came under scrutiny.PayPal's system converts users' cryptoassets into money before passing on payment to the vendors.Market watchers say it is too early to tell how these forays into crypto will play out.Developer Cronje said he functioned largely without the need for regular cash or banks by using services like BitPay and BitRefill, which allow crypto to be spent anywhere from Amazon to Uber."So it's not a matter of if, it´s a matter of when."Meanwhile, non-financial businesses will continue to throw themselves into the crypto space, often to emerge slightly wiser but no richer."It has shown us that bitcoin is more an investment tool than something people wish to part with for payment."


MOSCOW: Russian officials on Saturday accused US video hosting service YouTube of blocking the channel of the lower house of parliament and warned of reprisals.
"The United States wants to have a monopoly on the diffusion of information," Volodin said on Telegram.
"We cannot allow that".
According to Moscow, Duma-TV has more than 145,000 subscribers. It airs clips of parliamentary debates and interviews of Russian lawmakers.
On Thursday, Russia's state communications watchdog said it would ban US internet giant Google from advertising its services in the country, accusing YouTube of spreading "fake news" about its military campaign in Ukraine.
Russia has moved to block access to non-state media and information resources and fears are mounting that Google could be next in line for a ban.
The watchdog said Google-owned YouTube had committed "numerous violations" of Russian legislation and was "one of the key platforms, distributing fake news about the course of the special military operation in Ukraine, discrediting the armed forces of Russia".
It said it had decided to "introduce measures of coercion".
It said these included "a ban on distribution of advertising for Google LLC and its information resources".

"We cannot allow that".According to Moscow, Duma-TV has more than 145,000 subscribers.It airs clips of parliamentary debates and interviews of Russian lawmakers.The watchdog said Google-owned YouTube had committed "numerous violations" of Russian legislation and was "one of the key platforms, distributing fake news about the course of the special military operation in Ukraine, discrediting the armed forces of Russia".It said it had decided to "introduce measures of coercion".It said these included "a ban on distribution of advertising for Google LLC and its information resources".


Barrat, then still in his teens, had been invited by the London auction house to talk about the rise of online art.
As part of the presentation, he gifted the crowd 300 cards, each with a code that gave them rights to a digital artwork he had created using artificial intelligence.
This was before the NFT market exploded last year, and so only about two dozen of the guests bothered holding on to their little cards.
Barrat later recovered many from garbage cans and the floor.
Barrat, now 22, had been working with AI since high school in the United States.
He made his images by uploading 10,000 images from classical art into his computer and then using two competing AI programmes to distort them.
"My interest was: can I use this tool to make something that is not classical?" he told AFP in a video interview.
The method is known as "generative adversarial networks" (GANs): two neural networks that compete with each other using algorithms.
"(They) sort of fight between each other," Barrat said, adding that he purposefully added glitches to the programmes to make the final results more interesting.
The result was a series of shapeless "images", unsettling masses of reddish and brown tones that bear resemblance to paintings by Salvador Dali or Francis Bacon.
'Don't throw this away'
Barrat was invited to talk at Christie's by art collector Jason Bailey, known in the crypto-art world as Artnome, one of the pioneers of the NFT market.
He asked Barrat to create credit-card-sized coupons for the presentation, each with a code that gave access to an NFT stored online using blockchain technology, which guarantees unique ownership rights to whoever has the code.
"I was telling everybody from the stage: 'This is the future. Don't throw this card away.'" Bailey recalled with a smile.
"But these people were traditional art collectors. They were just, like, 'Who is this wacky guy on stage...nobody collects digital art.'"
'I'm not interested'
Today, Robbie Barrat's works are very rare, to the point of being nicknamed the "Lost Robbies".
And the NFT market has gone wild, with total sales estimated at $44.2 billion in 2021 according to analysis firm Chainalysis.
But despite his financial success, Barrat has been left deeply disillusioned by the experience.
"Over the past few years what I've seen with my work is that nobody even really discusses the image itself. All they talk about is the price," he said.
Barrat continues to experiment with AI, but says he no longer intends to sell work through the NFT market.
"I really do not like the NFT space right now. Unless it changes, I'm not interested. Also because of the environmental issues with it," he said.
There are widespread concerns about the vast amounts of energy required to maintain the blockchain and operate crypto-currencies such as Bitcoin that are used for many NFT transactions.
Four years after the strange episode at Christie's, Bailey still defends the validity of cryptocurrencies and NFTs, particularly since they allow artists to receive payments each time their work is resold — unlike the traditional art market.
But he added: "I totally understand and appreciate Robbie's desire to distance himself from NFTs. NFTs are not for every artist at this stage. Particularly when they are so polarising that they overshadow the art itself."

Barrat later recovered many from garbage cans and the floor.Barrat, now 22, had been working with AI since high school in the United States."My interest was: can I use this tool to make something that is not classical?"he told AFP in a video interview.He asked Barrat to create credit-card-sized coupons for the presentation, each with a code that gave access to an NFT stored online using blockchain technology, which guarantees unique ownership rights to whoever has the code."I was telling everybody from the stage: 'This is the future.Don't throw this card away.'"Bailey recalled with a smile."But these people were traditional art collectors.They were just, like, 'Who is this wacky guy on stage...nobody collects digital art.'"'I'm not interested'
Today, Robbie Barrat's works are very rare, to the point of being nicknamed the "Lost Robbies"."Over the past few years what I've seen with my work is that nobody even really discusses the image itself.All they talk about is the price," he said."I really do not like the NFT space right now.Unless it changes, I'm not interested.Also because of the environmental issues with it," he said.Four years after the strange episode at Christie's, Bailey still defends the validity of cryptocurrencies and NFTs, particularly since they allow artists to receive payments each time their work is resold — unlike the traditional art market.But he added: "I totally understand and appreciate Robbie's desire to distance himself from NFTs.NFTs are not for every artist at this stage.Particularly when they are so polarising that they overshadow the art itself."


MOSCOW: Russia's state communications watchdog said Thursday it would ban US internet giant Google from advertising its services in the country, accusing YouTube of spreading "fake news" about its military campaign in Ukraine.
Russia has moved to block access to non-state media and information resources and fears are mounting that Google could be next in line for a ban.
The watchdog said Google-owned YouTube had committed "numerous violations" of Russian legislation and was "one of the key platforms, distributing fake news about the course of the special military operation in Ukraine, discrediting the armed forces of Russia".
It said it had decided to "introduce measures of coercion".
It said these included "a ban on distribution of advertising for Google LLC and its information resources".
It also said it would inform people using Google search engines of its breaches of legislation, without giving details.
The watchdog has already limited access to Google News app and website and accused Google of being "anti-Russian".
After President Vladimir Putin sent troops to Ukraine on February 24 Russia passed legislation making it a crime punishable by up to 15 years in prison to disseminate "false" information about its troops.
It accused YouTube of not tackling information resources of Ukrainian far-right organisations including the controversial nationalist Azov battalion fighting in Mariupol, saying it has not deleted more than 12,000 pages declared extremist by Russia.
It also reiterated complaints that Google has blocked state-owned media such as RT and Sputnik and other Russian media sites.

The watchdog said Google-owned YouTube had committed "numerous violations" of Russian legislation and was "one of the key platforms, distributing fake news about the course of the special military operation in Ukraine, discrediting the armed forces of Russia".It said it had decided to "introduce measures of coercion".It said these included "a ban on distribution of advertising for Google LLC and its information resources".It also said it would inform people using Google search engines of its breaches of legislation, without giving details.The watchdog has already limited access to Google News app and website and accused Google of being "anti-Russian".It also reiterated complaints that Google has blocked state-owned media such as RT and Sputnik and other Russian media sites.


PARIS: The war in Ukraine has rapidly positioned TikTok as the number one source of misinformation thanks to its gigantic number of users and minimal filtering of content, experts say.
Every day, Shayan Sardarizadeh, a journalist with the BBC's disinformation team, ploughs through a hallucinatory mix of fake and misleading information about the war being spewed out on the video-sharing site.
"I haven't seen another platform with so much false content," he added.
"We've seen it all: videos from past conflicts being recycled, genuine footage presented in a misleading way, things that are so obviously false but still get tens of millions of views."
He said the most disturbing were fake live-streams in which users pretended to be on the ground in Ukraine but were using footage from other conflicts or even video games -- and then asking for money to support their "reporting".
"Millions tune in and watch. They even add fake gunshots and explosions," said Sardarizadeh.
Anastasiya Zhyrmont of Access Now, an advocacy group, said it was no excuse to say that the war came as a surprise.
"This conflict has been escalating since 2014 and these problems of Kremlin propaganda and misinformation have been raised with TikTok long before the invasion," she told AFP.
"They've promised to double their efforts and partner with content checkers, but I'm not sure they are taking this obligation seriously," she added.
'No context'
Zhyrmont said the problem may lie with the lack of Ukrainian language content moderators, making it trickier for TikTok to spot false information.
TikTok told AFP that it has Russian and Ukrainian speakers, but did not say how many, and said it had added resources specifically focused on the war but did not provide details.
AFP is a partner of TikTok, providing fact-checking services in Australia, Indonesia, New Zealand, Pakistan and the Philippines.
Some say the very nature of TikTok makes it problematic when subject matter becomes more serious than funny skits and dance routines.
"The way you consume information on TikTok -- scrolling from one video to another really quickly -- means there is no context on any given piece of content," said Chine Labbe of NewsGuard, which tracks online misinformation.
NewsGuard ran an experiment to see how long it would take for new users to start receiving false information if they lingered on videos about the war.
The answer was 40 minutes.
"NewsGuard's findings add to the body of evidence that TikTok's lack of effective content-labelling and moderation, coupled with its skill at pushing users to content that keeps them on the app, have made the platform fertile ground for the spread of disinformation," it concluded in its report.
TikTok recognises the problem.
In a blog post on March 4, it said it was using "a combination of technology and people to protect our platform" and partnering with independent fact-checkers to provide more context.
'Really troubling'
In the meantime, the particular concern with TikTok is the age of its users: a third in the United States, for example, are 19 or younger.
"It's hard enough for adults to decipher the real from the propaganda in Ukraine. For a young user to be fed all this false information is really troubling," said Labbe.
All those interviewed emphasised that misinformation is rampant across all social media, but that TikTok had done even less than Facebook, Instagram or Twitter to combat it.
TikTok's relative infancy also means its own users have not yet joined the fight as they have on other platforms.
"There are communities on Twitter and Instagram who are involved in disinformation," said Sardarizadeh.
"Some are starting to do fact-checking and educate people on TikTok, but we're talking about a dozen or two dozen, compared with hundreds on Twitter."

"I haven't seen another platform with so much false content," he added."Millions tune in and watch.They even add fake gunshots and explosions," said Sardarizadeh.Anastasiya Zhyrmont of Access Now, an advocacy group, said it was no excuse to say that the war came as a surprise."This conflict has been escalating since 2014 and these problems of Kremlin propaganda and misinformation have been raised with TikTok long before the invasion," she told AFP."They've promised to double their efforts and partner with content checkers, but I'm not sure they are taking this obligation seriously," she added.AFP is a partner of TikTok, providing fact-checking services in Australia, Indonesia, New Zealand, Pakistan and the Philippines.Some say the very nature of TikTok makes it problematic when subject matter becomes more serious than funny skits and dance routines.The answer was 40 minutes."NewsGuard's findings add to the body of evidence that TikTok's lack of effective content-labelling and moderation, coupled with its skill at pushing users to content that keeps them on the app, have made the platform fertile ground for the spread of disinformation," it concluded in its report.TikTok recognises the problem."It's hard enough for adults to decipher the real from the propaganda in Ukraine.For a young user to be fed all this false information is really troubling," said Labbe.All those interviewed emphasised that misinformation is rampant across all social media, but that TikTok had done even less than Facebook, Instagram or Twitter to combat it.TikTok's relative infancy also means its own users have not yet joined the fight as they have on other platforms."There are communities on Twitter and Instagram who are involved in disinformation," said Sardarizadeh."Some are starting to do fact-checking and educate people on TikTok, but we're talking about a dozen or two dozen, compared with hundreds on Twitter."


NAIROBI: "Plastic still has value," said Nzambi Matee of the mountains of discarded oil drums, laundry buckets, yoghurt tubs and other trash being shredded into colourful flakes at her Nairobi factory.
"I believe that plastic is one of the misunderstood materials."
The 30-year-old Kenyan engineer and inventor would know: her start-up recycles tonnes of plastic destined for landfills into eco-friendly bricks that are stronger, cheaper and lighter than concrete.
A creation of her own design, these sustainable paving blocks already line roads, driveways and sidewalks in Nairobi, but could soon also serve as an alternative building material for low-cost housing.
Every day her enterprise, Gjenge Makers, churns out 1,500 bricks made from industrial and household plastic that otherwise would be dumped in the city's overflowing garbage heaps.
The young entrepreneur quit a job in oil and gas — the very industry that makes plastic from fossil fuels — to explore recycling after being shocked at how little trash was being reused.
"In Nairobi, we generate about 500 metric tonnes of plastic waste every single day, and only a fraction of that is recycled," said Matee, who bounds with the energy around the factory floor in denim overalls and trainers.
"And that made me think -- what happens to this plastic?"
Stronger, lighter, cheaper 
Most winds up in landfill, rivers and oceans and less than 10 per cent is recycled.
In Nairobi, one of Africa's fastest-growing capitals, Matee found an endless supply of raw material to work with, scouring the city's tips and industrial zones for unwanted plastic.
It took several years to perfect a prototype — the machinery required was custom built and sourced from spare industrial parts — but by 2019 production was steadily underway.
The shredded plastic is mixed with sand and subjected to extreme heat, producing a sludge that is moulded into different sized blocks.
The end result is a paver that is anywhere between two and seven times stronger than concrete, half the weight, and as much as 15 per cent cheaper, says Matee.
It is also more durable.
Plastic is fibrous in nature, and the unique production process prevents air pockets from forming within the bricks. This results in greater compression strength than conventional paving stones that crack under heavy force or prolonged weather exposure.
"Because of that, it doesn't break," said Matee, clapping two of the plastic bricks together sharply.
In 2021, they recycled 50 tonnes of plastic but Matee hopes to double that amount this year as production expands.
Big plans
There are limitations.
Of the seven major types of plastic, only four can be recycled into bricks.
PET plastic — the kind used in plastic bottles and a major scourge on the environment — is not yet compatible, but they hope to change that.
"There is more that can be done, there is more that needs to be done. We are just a single drop in the ocean... small, small drops will make a big effect," Matee said.
They are trying to break into the affordable housing market by designing a block that can replace or complement bricks, mortar and other standard building materials.
A prototype is in the works, with plans to build a model home by the end of the year.
"We want to be the leaders in alternative building products. Our first area of attack is plastic," Matee said.
Her trailblazing work has attracted accolades and earned another boost earlier this year after she designed a custom gavel for a major UN environment summit where the plastic trash crisis topped the agenda.
Gjenge Makers has also created over 100 direct and indirect jobs through recycling plastic — helping both livelihoods and the environment in a way Matee says wasn't possible working with fossil fuels.
"Let's just say I sleep better," she said with a grin.

NAIROBI: "Plastic still has value," said Nzambi Matee of the mountains of discarded oil drums, laundry buckets, yoghurt tubs and other trash being shredded into colourful flakes at her Nairobi factory."I believe that plastic is one of the misunderstood materials.""And that made me think -- what happens to this plastic?"Stronger, lighter, cheaper 
Most winds up in landfill, rivers and oceans and less than 10 per cent is recycled.The shredded plastic is mixed with sand and subjected to extreme heat, producing a sludge that is moulded into different sized blocks.It is also more durable.In 2021, they recycled 50 tonnes of plastic but Matee hopes to double that amount this year as production expands.Big plans
There are limitations.Of the seven major types of plastic, only four can be recycled into bricks.PET plastic — the kind used in plastic bottles and a major scourge on the environment — is not yet compatible, but they hope to change that."There is more that can be done, there is more that needs to be done.We are just a single drop in the ocean... small, small drops will make a big effect," Matee said.They are trying to break into the affordable housing market by designing a block that can replace or complement bricks, mortar and other standard building materials.A prototype is in the works, with plans to build a model home by the end of the year."We want to be the leaders in alternative building products.Our first area of attack is plastic," Matee said.Her trailblazing work has attracted accolades and earned another boost earlier this year after she designed a custom gavel for a major UN environment summit where the plastic trash crisis topped the agenda."Let's just say I sleep better," she said with a grin.


BEIJING: Chinese telecoms giant Huawei on Monday reported record profit for 2021, defying the US sanctions aimed at it as executive Meng Wanzhou made her first public appearance since returning to China from Canadian custody.
The company has been caught in the crosshairs of a US-China trade and technology rivalry, with the administration of former President Donald Trump moving to cripple it over cybersecurity and espionage concerns.
The results, announced in Chinese tech hub Shenzhen, also marked the first return to the limelight of Meng since her high-profile return to China after nearly three years under house arrest in Canada.
Meng, daughter of CEO and founder Ren Zhengfei, spent the years in Canada fighting extradition to the US, as Washington accused her of defrauding HSBC bank by trying to hide alleged violations of US sanctions on Iran.
She returned home shortly after two Canadians were released from prison in China, ending a diplomatic row that poisoned ties between Beijing and Ottawa for years.
Huawei's revenue fell by around 29 percent last year to 636.8 billion yuan ($100 billion), as it grappled with US sanctions aimed at blocking access to key technology and supplies.
But the slump under US sanctions appears to be slowing, and the company said its net profits hit a new record -- surging 75.9 percent on-year to 113.7 billion yuan.
"Despite a revenue decline in 2021, our ability to make a profit and generate cash flows is increasing, and we are more capable of dealing with uncertainty," Meng said in Monday's statement.
The company attributes its profitability to "improved product portfolios and more efficient internal operations", with a rise in net profit margin even with gains from the sale of its budget phone brand Honor excluded.
The company is not publicly listed and its accounts are not subject to the same audits as companies traded on the stock market.
Huawei, a supplier of telecom networking gear and smartphone brand, has been struggling since Trump launched a campaign to contain the company in 2018.
Smartphone sales stalled after the US cut Huawei off from key parts and barred it from using Google's Android services.
Last year Huawei logged 243 billion yuan in consumer business sales -- almost 50 percent down from 2020.
Huawei has instead tried to shore up other parts of its business, refocusing on the Chinese market and diversifying to encompass enterprise and cloud computing, along with other business segments related to 5G networks.
Rotating chairman Guo Ping said in a speech at the event that Huawei's ability to "survive and thrive" depends on ongoing investment in development.
"Our fight to survive is not over yet," Guo said.
"No matter what comes our way, we will keep investing. That is the only way forward."
The company's research and development investment amounted to 142.7 billion yuan last year, around 22 percent of its total revenue.

BEIJING: Chinese telecoms giant Huawei on Monday reported record profit for 2021, defying the US sanctions aimed at it as executive Meng Wanzhou made her first public appearance since returning to China from Canadian custody.She returned home shortly after two Canadians were released from prison in China, ending a diplomatic row that poisoned ties between Beijing and Ottawa for years.Huawei's revenue fell by around 29 percent last year to 636.8 billion yuan ($100 billion), as it grappled with US sanctions aimed at blocking access to key technology and supplies."Despite a revenue decline in 2021, our ability to make a profit and generate cash flows is increasing, and we are more capable of dealing with uncertainty," Meng said in Monday's statement.The company attributes its profitability to "improved product portfolios and more efficient internal operations", with a rise in net profit margin even with gains from the sale of its budget phone brand Honor excluded.The company is not publicly listed and its accounts are not subject to the same audits as companies traded on the stock market.Huawei, a supplier of telecom networking gear and smartphone brand, has been struggling since Trump launched a campaign to contain the company in 2018.Smartphone sales stalled after the US cut Huawei off from key parts and barred it from using Google's Android services.Rotating chairman Guo Ping said in a speech at the event that Huawei's ability to "survive and thrive" depends on ongoing investment in development."Our fight to survive is not over yet," Guo said."No matter what comes our way, we will keep investing.That is the only way forward."


MOSCOW: Russia's FSB national security service asked a court Monday to "immediately" ban US tech giant Meta, accusing it of working against Moscow's interests during its "special military operation" in Ukraine.
The court was considering a request by prosecutors to designate Meta — the parent company of Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp — as an "extremist" organisation and ban it.
The move is part of sweeping efforts by Moscow to put a tight lid on information available to Russians about the conflict in Ukraine.
"The activities of the Meta organisation are directed against Russia and its armed forces," FSB representative Igor Kovalevsky told Moscow's Tverskoi district court, Russian news agencies reported.
"We ask (the court) to ban Meta's activities and oblige it to implement this ruling immediately," he said.
After President Vladimir Putin sent troops into Ukraine on February 24, authorities blocked access in Russia to Facebook and Instagram, as well as to Twitter.
Meta had announced on March 10 that the platforms would allow statements like "death to Russian invaders" but not credible threats against civilians.
But in what appeared to be damage control, Meta's global affairs president, Nick Clegg, later said the laxer rules would only apply to people posting from inside Ukraine.
In court, a Meta representative said that "following public debate" the company had now changed its policy and deemed that "Russophobia and calls for violence against Russian citizens are unacceptable".
Russia's Investigative Committee, which probes major crimes, said it was launching a probe "due to illegal calls for the murder of Russian nationals by employees of the American company Meta".
The General Prosecutor's Office requested that the internet giant be branded "extremist".
Meta boasts billions of users globally across its apps.
Facebook and Instagram were widely used in Russia and the latter was the most popular social media platform among young Russians.
For many small Russian businesses, Instagram was a key platform for advertising, processing sales and communicating with clients.
Twitter and Facebook have been inaccessible in Russia since early March and Instagram was blocked in the country a week ago.

The move is part of sweeping efforts by Moscow to put a tight lid on information available to Russians about the conflict in Ukraine."The activities of the Meta organisation are directed against Russia and its armed forces," FSB representative Igor Kovalevsky told Moscow's Tverskoi district court, Russian news agencies reported."We ask (the court) to ban Meta's activities and oblige it to implement this ruling immediately," he said.After President Vladimir Putin sent troops into Ukraine on February 24, authorities blocked access in Russia to Facebook and Instagram, as well as to Twitter.Meta had announced on March 10 that the platforms would allow statements like "death to Russian invaders" but not credible threats against civilians.The General Prosecutor's Office requested that the internet giant be branded "extremist".Meta boasts billions of users globally across its apps.Facebook and Instagram were widely used in Russia and the latter was the most popular social media platform among young Russians.For many small Russian businesses, Instagram was a key platform for advertising, processing sales and communicating with clients.


NEW YORK: Popular messaging application Telegram has become a go-to platform since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, despite concerns over its data security and defenses against misinformation.
It has benefitted from the gap left by Russia's blocking of Facebook and Instagram, offering a platform for mass messaging in a way similar to social media.
The platform also provides one of the last windows on Russia, but also an open channel to the horrors facing an under siege Ukraine.
"Our main hope is connected with Telegram channel," Galina Timchenko, director of the independent news site Meduza that Russia has moved to block, told the Committee to Protect Journalists.
According to daily figures provided by Telegram, the app has been downloaded over 150 million times since the beginning of the year, with the official figure of half a billion active users dating back to January 2021.
Prior to Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, Telegram benefitted from not using the same economic model of the big American platforms that generate revenue with data on their users.
Downloads jumped in 2021 when a report from ProPublica investigative journalists claimed that Facebook teams were viewing messages sent via WhatsApp, contrary to company assurances.
At the same time, Telegram has benefitted from the image of its creators, brothers Pavel and Nikolai Durov, Russian citizens who left their home country in 2014.
Under pressure from the authorities, Nikolai sold his stake in VK, which he had created, rather than hand over the personal data of activists to the government.
"Telegram is now a very nice revenge story, and we all love a good revenge story," said Enrique Dans, a professor specializing in information systems at the IE Business School in Madrid.
"Will that be enough to make Telegram the world's favorite messaging app? That's a whole lot to say. The app still has a lot of things to demonstrate in areas such as security, encryption and business model," he added.
While the platform run from Dubai claims to be secure, it does not encrypt messages by default, as does the Meta owned WhatsApp says it does.
In addition, "Telegram's profile has grown enormously in recent weeks, and that has raised the stakes about the impact of misinformation on the platform, said Jamie MacEwan, a media analyst at Enders Analysis.
Messaging platforms in general have long faced criticism over their capacity to combat misinformation.
Contacted by AFP, Telegram said it employs "several hundred professional moderators to keep the platform safe for users", a team that is "constantly growing".
"Meta employs tens of thousands of moderators and huge problems still slip through the net," said MacEwan, "It is unclear how much investment in moderation Telegram can support on its current funding model."
The company's model was fully funded by Pavel Durov until 2018, before raising $1.7 billion from investors, with the hope of launching its own cryptocurrency and becoming an alternative to Visa and Mastercard.
But the project fell through due to lack of regulatory approval in the United States, and the company repaid most of the funds.
Entirely free, Telegram started advertising last year, but with a reduced, highly regulated offering, and guaranteeing that it would not use users' private data for targeting.
In April 2021, the Russian business daily Vedomosti reported that the company was preparing to go public in 2023, and was aiming for a valuation of between $30 billion and $50 billion.
"The value that Telegram could eventually reach if it goes public depends strongly on its monetization strategy and Durov has not been very clear on that yet," said Dans.

It has benefitted from the gap left by Russia's blocking of Facebook and Instagram, offering a platform for mass messaging in a way similar to social media.The platform also provides one of the last windows on Russia, but also an open channel to the horrors facing an under siege Ukraine.According to daily figures provided by Telegram, the app has been downloaded over 150 million times since the beginning of the year, with the official figure of half a billion active users dating back to January 2021.At the same time, Telegram has benefitted from the image of its creators, brothers Pavel and Nikolai Durov, Russian citizens who left their home country in 2014.Under pressure from the authorities, Nikolai sold his stake in VK, which he had created, rather than hand over the personal data of activists to the government."Will that be enough to make Telegram the world's favorite messaging app?That's a whole lot to say.The app still has a lot of things to demonstrate in areas such as security, encryption and business model," he added.While the platform run from Dubai claims to be secure, it does not encrypt messages by default, as does the Meta owned WhatsApp says it does.Messaging platforms in general have long faced criticism over their capacity to combat misinformation."Meta employs tens of thousands of moderators and huge problems still slip through the net," said MacEwan, "It is unclear how much investment in moderation Telegram can support on its current funding model."But the project fell through due to lack of regulatory approval in the United States, and the company repaid most of the funds.In April 2021, the Russian business daily Vedomosti reported that the company was preparing to go public in 2023, and was aiming for a valuation of between $30 billion and $50 billion."The value that Telegram could eventually reach if it goes public depends strongly on its monetization strategy and Durov has not been very clear on that yet," said Dans.


Australia's consumer protection commission said it had started Federal Court proceedings against Meta Platforms for "false, misleading or deceptive conduct" in breach of consumer or securities laws.
It accused Meta of failing to do enough to stop scam ads for cryptocurrency or money-making schemes, even after being alerted by celebrities who had been misrepresented by similar ads published on Facebook.
Meta vowed to defend itself, saying in a statement that it sought to stop scam ads by using technology to detect and block them.
"We don´t want ads seeking to scam people out of money or mislead people on Facebook — they violate our policies and are not good for our community," a Meta spokesperson said.
The social media titan said it had cooperated with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission's investigation. According to the commission, the ads featured well-known Australians, including former New South Wales premier Mike Baird and businessman Dick Smith.
But the high-profile personalities featured in the ads had never approved or endorsed them, it said.
"Apart from resulting in untold losses to consumers, these ads also damage the reputation of the public figures falsely associated with the ads," said the commission's chair, Rod Sims.
"Meta failed to take sufficient steps to stop fake ads featuring public figures, even after those public figures reported to Meta that their name and image were being featured in celebrity endorsement cryptocurrency scam ads," he said.
The commission said it was aware of one consumer who had lost more than Aus$650,000 (US$480,000) in one of the scams being falsely advertised as an investment opportunity on Facebook.
"This is disgraceful," Sims said.
The consumer protection authority said it was seeking orders from the court including injunctions, penalties, and the payment of legal costs.

Australia's consumer protection commission said it had started Federal Court proceedings against Meta Platforms for "false, misleading or deceptive conduct" in breach of consumer or securities laws.Meta vowed to defend itself, saying in a statement that it sought to stop scam ads by using technology to detect and block them."We don´t want ads seeking to scam people out of money or mislead people on Facebook — they violate our policies and are not good for our community," a Meta spokesperson said.The social media titan said it had cooperated with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission's investigation.But the high-profile personalities featured in the ads had never approved or endorsed them, it said."Meta failed to take sufficient steps to stop fake ads featuring public figures, even after those public figures reported to Meta that their name and image were being featured in celebrity endorsement cryptocurrency scam ads," he said.The commission said it was aware of one consumer who had lost more than Aus$650,000 (US$480,000) in one of the scams being falsely advertised as an investment opportunity on Facebook."This is disgraceful," Sims said.


The United States had previously revoked the permits of China Telecom and China Unicom, and the Federal Communications Commission has now given 60 days to Pacific and its subsidiary ComNet to cut service.
"The companies' ownership and control by the Chinese government raise significant national security and law enforcement risks," the FCC said in a statement, adding Beijing could monitor or disrupt US communications.
Beijing criticised the move as "blatantly overstretching the concept of national security."
At a press briefing Thursday, foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said the move was "an abuse of state power, and an unreasonable suppression of Chinese companies."
He said China would "continue to take necessary measures to resolutely safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese companies."
ComNet did not immediately reply to a request for comment.
The revocation of Pacific's operating authority comes as US President Joe Biden has pressed ahead with a strategy of confronting China broadly in line with that of his predecessor Donald Trump, whose approach sent tensions soaring.
Relations have been fraught between the world's two biggest economies on multiple fronts, including trade, human rights, Taiwan and the Covid-19 pandemic.
China Telecom is China's largest fixed-line operator, but it had faced trouble in the United States for years, particularly during Trump's presidency, as his administration repeatedly clashed with Beijing over trade.
The telecoms companies have fought back against the restrictions, with China Unicom saying in a statement in January that the FCC's decision was "without any justifiable grounds and without affording required due process."

"The companies' ownership and control by the Chinese government raise significant national security and law enforcement risks," the FCC said in a statement, adding Beijing could monitor or disrupt US communications.Beijing criticised the move as "blatantly overstretching the concept of national security."ComNet did not immediately reply to a request for comment.Relations have been fraught between the world's two biggest economies on multiple fronts, including trade, human rights, Taiwan and the Covid-19 pandemic.China Telecom is China's largest fixed-line operator, but it had faced trouble in the United States for years, particularly during Trump's presidency, as his administration repeatedly clashed with Beijing over trade.The telecoms companies have fought back against the restrictions, with China Unicom saying in a statement in January that the FCC's decision was "without any justifiable grounds and without affording required due process."


Sharing screenshots of the chat, the WhatsApp news tracker reported that the developers are working on a feature to keep chat and messages more private as they believe that the most important interaction people have is around private messaging.
According to the details, Zuckerberg also confirmed that a disappearing mode is coming to WhatsApp that “automatically enables ephemeral messages in new chat threads.”
“Will Cathcart confirmed that multi-device will be rolled out in a public beta within two months,” the platform reported, adding that:

Sharing screenshots of the chat, the WhatsApp news tracker reported that the developers are working on a feature to keep chat and messages more private as they believe that the most important interaction people have is around private messaging.According to the details, Zuckerberg also confirmed that a disappearing mode is coming to WhatsApp that “automatically enables ephemeral messages in new chat threads.”
“Will Cathcart confirmed that multi-device will be rolled out in a public beta within two months,” the platform reported, adding that:


The company, which was founded in China but has since been banned there, said it would provide crypto asset trading and portfolio management services under the supervision of the Central Bank of Bahrain.
Binance founder and CEO Changpeng Zhao praised the "stringent criteria of the Central Bank of Bahrain" in terms of anti-money laundering, at a time when most regulators around the world are wary of cryptocurrencies.
Bahrain hopes to become a regional hub for crypto asset companies, as does Dubai.
The Emirate this month also announced the adoption of a virtual assets law and the creation of a crypto asset regulatory authority.
Another major cryptocurrency exchange platform, FTX, also announced on Tuesday the launch of its operations and the opening of a regional headquarters in Dubai.

The company, which was founded in China but has since been banned there, said it would provide crypto asset trading and portfolio management services under the supervision of the Central Bank of Bahrain.Bahrain hopes to become a regional hub for crypto asset companies, as does Dubai.The Emirate this month also announced the adoption of a virtual assets law and the creation of a crypto asset regulatory authority.


The move comes after Facebook and Twitter were blocked in early March as part of sweeping efforts by Moscow to control information available to Russians about its military operation in Ukraine.
Instagram appeared Monday on a list of "restricted" online resources on a list published by Russia´s media regulator Roskomnadzor.
Instagram´s app was not refreshing without a VPN.
Facebook and Instagram are widely used in Russia, the latter being the most popular social media platform among young Russians.
For many small Russian businesses, Instagram was a key platform for advertising, processing sales and communicating with clients. (AFP)

Instagram appeared Monday on a list of "restricted" online resources on a list published by Russia´s media regulator Roskomnadzor.Instagram´s app was not refreshing without a VPN.Facebook and Instagram are widely used in Russia, the latter being the most popular social media platform among young Russians.(AFP)


Artemis I will be the first-ever, un-crewed space flight test of the Space Launch System and the Orion spacecraft. The mighty rocket is going to have a trip around the moon and may create a path for the first-ever lunar trip with a woman and a person of colour by 2025.
Once you submit your name, NASA will create a virtual boarding pass for you as well. The flash drive of all the names will orbit the moon for more than three weeks. 
On March 17, NASA will hold a wet dress rehearsal, rolling out the combination of the spaceship and rocket to the launch pad of NASA's Kennedy Space Centre in Florida. The data from the rehearsal will decide the actual date of the launch after judging the equipment and procedures.
"All eyes will be on the historic Launch Complex 39B when Orion and the Space Launch System (SLS) lift off for the first time from NASA's modernized Kennedy Space Center in Florida," the space agency said. 
NASA has long-term goals where they plan to send Artemis II by 2024 if Artemis I proves to be successful. Artemis II is expected to have a team of astronauts orbit around the moon. Artemis III is planned next to be executed as well at the success of Artemis II. 
If all goes well, by 2027, humans might be landing on the surface of the moon for the first time after 1972. 

Once you submit your name, NASA will create a virtual boarding pass for you as well.The flash drive of all the names will orbit the moon for more than three weeks.The data from the rehearsal will decide the actual date of the launch after judging the equipment and procedures."All eyes will be on the historic Launch Complex 39B when Orion and the Space Launch System (SLS) lift off for the first time from NASA's modernized Kennedy Space Center in Florida," the space agency said.NASA has long-term goals where they plan to send Artemis II by 2024 if Artemis I proves to be successful.Artemis II is expected to have a team of astronauts orbit around the moon.If all goes well, by 2027, humans might be landing on the surface of the moon for the first time after 1972.


MOSCOW: Western sanctions against Russia could cause the International Space Station to crash, the head of Russian space agency Roscosmos warned Saturday, calling for the punitive measures to be lifted.
According to Dmitry Rogozin, the sanctions, some of which predate Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, could disrupt the operation of Russian spacecraft servicing the ISS.
As a result, the Russian segment of the station -- which helps correct its orbit -- could be affected, causing the 500-tonne structure to "fall down into the sea or onto land", the Roscosmos chief wrote on Telegram.
"The Russian segment ensures that the station's orbit is corrected (on average 11 times a year), including to avoid space debris", said Rogozin, who regularly expresses his support for the Russian army in Ukraine on social networks.
Publishing a map of the locations where the ISS could possibly come down, he pointed out that it was unlikely to be in Russia.
"But the populations of other countries, especially those led by the 'dogs of war', should think about the price of the sanctions against Roscosmos", he continued, describing the countries who imposed sanctions as "crazy".
Rogozin similarly raised the threat of the space station falling to earth last month while blasting Western sanctions on Twitter.
On March 1, NASA said it was trying to find a solution to keep the ISS in orbit without Russia's help.
Crews and supplies are transported to the Russian segment by Soyuz spacecraft.
But Rogozin said the launcher used for take-off had been "under US sanctions since 2021 and under EU and Canadian sanctions since 2022".
Roscosmos said it had appealed to NASA, the Canadian Space Agency and the European Space Agency, "demanding the lifting of illegal sanctions against our companies".
Space is one of the last remaining areas where the United States and Russia continue to cooperate.
At the beginning of March, Roscosmos announced its intention to prioritise the construction of military satellites as Russia finds itself increasingly isolated as a result of the war in Ukraine.
Rogozin also announced that Moscow would no longer supply the engines for the US Atlas and Antares rockets.
"Let them soar into space on their broomsticks," he wrote.
On March 30, US astronaut, Mark Vande Hei, and two cosmonauts, Anton Shkaplerov and Pyotr Dubrov, are scheduled to return to Earth from the ISS onboard a Soyuz spacecraft.

MOSCOW: Western sanctions against Russia could cause the International Space Station to crash, the head of Russian space agency Roscosmos warned Saturday, calling for the punitive measures to be lifted.Publishing a map of the locations where the ISS could possibly come down, he pointed out that it was unlikely to be in Russia."But the populations of other countries, especially those led by the 'dogs of war', should think about the price of the sanctions against Roscosmos", he continued, describing the countries who imposed sanctions as "crazy".On March 1, NASA said it was trying to find a solution to keep the ISS in orbit without Russia's help.Crews and supplies are transported to the Russian segment by Soyuz spacecraft.But Rogozin said the launcher used for take-off had been "under US sanctions since 2021 and under EU and Canadian sanctions since 2022".Roscosmos said it had appealed to NASA, the Canadian Space Agency and the European Space Agency, "demanding the lifting of illegal sanctions against our companies".Space is one of the last remaining areas where the United States and Russia continue to cooperate.Rogozin also announced that Moscow would no longer supply the engines for the US Atlas and Antares rockets."Let them soar into space on their broomsticks," he wrote.


Adam Mosseri, the head of Instagram, tweeted: “This decision will cut 80 million in Russia off from one another, and from the rest of the world as 80% of people in Russia follow an Instagram account outside their country. This is wrong.”
Giving active users time to manage their content, transfer it to other social media platforms and inform their contacts, the agency has announced that Instagram will be taken down on March 14th.
Even though the Russian oligarchs themselves are on these social networks, the Russian government does not mention that in their notice. For example, Sofia Abramovich, the daughter of billionaire Roman Abramovich, reportedly said that “the biggest and most successful lie of Kremlin’s propaganda is that most Russians stand with Putin.”
Meta’s president of global affairs Nick Clegg believes in providing netizens with the right to freedom of speech, but with this step by the Russian government, it might not be achievable.

Adam Mosseri, the head of Instagram, tweeted: “This decision will cut 80 million in Russia off from one another, and from the rest of the world as 80% of people in Russia follow an Instagram account outside their country.This is wrong.”
Giving active users time to manage their content, transfer it to other social media platforms and inform their contacts, the agency has announced that Instagram will be taken down on March 14th.Even though the Russian oligarchs themselves are on these social networks, the Russian government does not mention that in their notice.


BRUSSELS: The EU and Britain on Friday opened an antitrust probe into a 2018 deal between tech giants Google and Facebook owner Meta allegedly aimed at cementing their dominance over the online advertising market.
The European Commission said it was investigating the so-called "Jedi Blue" agreement to see if it had been used to "restrict and distort competition in the already concentrated ad tech market".
EU competition supremo Margrethe Vestager said if confirmed, the arrangement will have served to distort competition, squeezing rival ad tech companies, publishers "and ultimately consumers."
The UK's Competition Market Authority also launched its own investigation into the agreement and the two authorities will "closely cooperate" on the investigation, the EU said.
Chief Executive Andrea Coscelli said the CMA "will not shy away from scrutinising the behaviour of big tech firms... working closely with global regulators to get the best outcomes possible."
The two online advertising behemoths are under intense pressure from publishers and ad rivals as together they overwhelm the online advertising market in much of the world.
The giants faced similar accusations in US lawsuits that Google dismissed as "misleading" and without "credible basis."
According to the accusations, the "Jedi Blue" deal served to oust competition by manipulating ad auctions -- the ultra-sophisticated system that determines which ads appear on web pages based on the anonymised profiles of internet users.
US court documents revealed that the top bosses of Google and Facebook were directly involved in approving the allegedly illegal 2018 deal.
The legal documents filed in a New York court clearly refer to Sundar Pichai, chief of Google's parent firm Alphabet, as well as Facebook executive Sheryl Sandberg and CEO Mark Zuckerberg -- even if their names were redacted.

BRUSSELS: The EU and Britain on Friday opened an antitrust probe into a 2018 deal between tech giants Google and Facebook owner Meta allegedly aimed at cementing their dominance over the online advertising market.The UK's Competition Market Authority also launched its own investigation into the agreement and the two authorities will "closely cooperate" on the investigation, the EU said.Chief Executive Andrea Coscelli said the CMA "will not shy away from scrutinising the behaviour of big tech firms... working closely with global regulators to get the best outcomes possible."The two online advertising behemoths are under intense pressure from publishers and ad rivals as together they overwhelm the online advertising market in much of the world.The giants faced similar accusations in US lawsuits that Google dismissed as "misleading" and without "credible basis."According to the accusations, the "Jedi Blue" deal served to oust competition by manipulating ad auctions -- the ultra-sophisticated system that determines which ads appear on web pages based on the anonymised profiles of internet users.


NEW YORK: US President Joe Biden has ordered the federal government to look into creating a digital dollar, a move with the potential to reshape how money is moved and used around the world.
Before his order results in a virtual greenback, there will be numerous major impacts — and risks — to consider first.
Here are some key questions:
 What form would a digital dollar take? 
It would still be a dollar issued by the US Federal Reserve central bank, like all US bills and coins used now, but in a digital form that is accessible to everyone, not just financial institutions.
Unlike money deposited in a bank account or spent via apps like Venmo and Apple Pay, it would be registered in the accounts of the Federal Reserve, not a bank.
At the same time, the digital dollar would be worth the same as its paper counterpart, a divergence from cryptocurrencies which currently have highly volatile valuations.
Key questions remain unanswered, like whether a digital dollar would be based on blockchain technology like bitcoin or if it would be linked with some sort of payment card.
Biden is asking agencies, including the Treasury Department, to examine various issues on the topic.
If the government decides to go ahead, it could take "a number of years" before we can use a digital dollar -- authorities will have to explore for instance which technology to use, said Darrell Duffie, a digital currencies expert at Stanford University in California.
Why launch a digital dollar?
It would reduce or even eliminate transaction fees since exchanges would no longer go through banks, bank cards or apps that take commissions on every payment.
Proponents say it would help people without bank accounts, about five per cent of households in the United States, and could make it easier for the government to pay benefits.
There are risks like a system failure or a cyberattack, and there are also questions about privacy, as the government could theoretically have access to all transactions.
The banking system could also be undermined as banks currently use customers' deposits to lend to others, and with a digital dollar, they could have less money at their disposal.
How will global finance be affected?
International transfers, often slow and expensive to make, could be greatly eased.
An operation that currently takes two days to be validated could be done in one hour, said Marc Chandler, a foreign exchange expert for the broker Bannockburn.
For Chandler, the geopolitical role of the US dollar would not be upset by the digital version's introduction.
A digital dollar would represent "a natural evolution rather than a revolution", he noted, recalling that more than $6.5 trillion are already exchanged in electronic form every day on the foreign exchange market.
Even if China launches a large-scale digital yuan, as is being discussed, he said he doesn't think that changes China's role in the world economy as "there will always be questions of trust, transparency, depth of markets."
For Stanford's Duffie, however, if the United States wants to continue to benefit from the dollar's status as the dominant currency in central bank reserves and international payments, it is essential that the government tread cautiously.
"The US are going to need to ensure that they stay in a leading position in international forums that discuss standards for making cross-border payments standards for digital currencies," he said.
Can the United States catch up?
Other countries are already working on digital versions of their own currencies, from the eurozone to India, but "there is no evidence to suggest being first to market provides any significant or material advantages," said Jamiel Sheikh, founder of CBDC Think Tank.
On the contrary, failure due to unintended consequences, low usage or other issues can undermine faith in the issuing institution, he noted.
"The overwhelming dominance of the dollar gives the US the luxury of learning from... other countries," agreed Cornell University professor Eswar Prasad.
 Would the crypto world be turned upside down? -
If properly designed, a digital dollar could be more preferable for domestic use than a cryptocurrency, said Duffie.
For international transfers, however, he said he was "sceptical that large central banks like the Fed or the ECB, China or Japan, will give accounts at the central bank to people all over the world."
If the United States did so, he noted, it could wreck the monetary system of small countries whose people might prefer to use the digital dollar rather than the local currency.

Before his order results in a virtual greenback, there will be numerous major impacts — and risks — to consider first.Here are some key questions:
 What form would a digital dollar take?It would still be a dollar issued by the US Federal Reserve central bank, like all US bills and coins used now, but in a digital form that is accessible to everyone, not just financial institutions.At the same time, the digital dollar would be worth the same as its paper counterpart, a divergence from cryptocurrencies which currently have highly volatile valuations.Key questions remain unanswered, like whether a digital dollar would be based on blockchain technology like bitcoin or if it would be linked with some sort of payment card.Biden is asking agencies, including the Treasury Department, to examine various issues on the topic.If the government decides to go ahead, it could take "a number of years" before we can use a digital dollar -- authorities will have to explore for instance which technology to use, said Darrell Duffie, a digital currencies expert at Stanford University in California.Why launch a digital dollar?There are risks like a system failure or a cyberattack, and there are also questions about privacy, as the government could theoretically have access to all transactions.How will global finance be affected?International transfers, often slow and expensive to make, could be greatly eased.An operation that currently takes two days to be validated could be done in one hour, said Marc Chandler, a foreign exchange expert for the broker Bannockburn.For Chandler, the geopolitical role of the US dollar would not be upset by the digital version's introduction.A digital dollar would represent "a natural evolution rather than a revolution", he noted, recalling that more than $6.5 trillion are already exchanged in electronic form every day on the foreign exchange market.Can the United States catch up?Other countries are already working on digital versions of their own currencies, from the eurozone to India, but "there is no evidence to suggest being first to market provides any significant or material advantages," said Jamiel Sheikh, founder of CBDC Think Tank.On the contrary, failure due to unintended consequences, low usage or other issues can undermine faith in the issuing institution, he noted.Would the crypto world be turned upside down?


ROME: Italy's data privacy watchdog on Wednesday fined US-based firm Clearview AI 20 million euros (almost $22 million) over its controversial facial recognition software.
The watchdog ordered the company to delete data relating to people in Italy and banned it from further collection and processing of information there.
Clearview AI says it has built up a database of more than 10 billion facial images taken from public websites, from social media to news sites, which it touts as a tool for law enforcement.
Italy's privacy watchdog said that, despite Clearview's assertions to the contrary, the firm had allowed the tracking of citizens and people in Italy.
"The personal data held by the company, including biometric and geolocation data, are processed unlawfully," the watchdog said.
The company had also violated several principles of GDPR, a European Union privacy regulation introduced in 2018 to control who can access personal data.
In addition to the fine, the watchdog said Clearview should designate an EU representative to act as "an interlocutor" with plaintiffs.
Campaigners have condemned Clearview's use of images for being open to abuse, and a number of groups including Privacy International last year filed complaints with data regulators in France, Austria, Italy, Greece and Britain.
In December, France's privacy watchdog ordered Clearview to delete data on its citizens and cease further collection.
Meanwhile in June last year, Canada's independent parliamentary watchdog ruled that both Clearview's database and the use of it by federal police were illegal.

The watchdog ordered the company to delete data relating to people in Italy and banned it from further collection and processing of information there.Italy's privacy watchdog said that, despite Clearview's assertions to the contrary, the firm had allowed the tracking of citizens and people in Italy."The personal data held by the company, including biometric and geolocation data, are processed unlawfully," the watchdog said.The company had also violated several principles of GDPR, a European Union privacy regulation introduced in 2018 to control who can access personal data.In addition to the fine, the watchdog said Clearview should designate an EU representative to act as "an interlocutor" with plaintiffs.Campaigners have condemned Clearview's use of images for being open to abuse, and a number of groups including Privacy International last year filed complaints with data regulators in France, Austria, Italy, Greece and Britain.


NEW YORK: In protest against Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, streaming giant Netflix has suspended its service in Russia, US media reported Sunday.
The US-based platform had already halted its acquisitions in Russia earlier this week, as well as its production of original programs.
"Given the circumstances on the ground, we have decided to suspend our service in Russia," a spokesperson told the US magazine Variety.
When contacted by AFP, Netflix did not immediately respond.
Netflix is the world's leading streaming platform, with 221.8 million subscribers at the end of 2021.
But it is a minor player in Russia, where it has fewer than one million subscribers, according to The Wall Street Journal.
Netflix joins a host of foreign companies that have announced the suspension of operations or outright withdrawal from Russia since the launch of Moscow's offensive in Ukraine on February 24.
On Monday, Netflix told the website Vulture that it did not intend to comply with a Russian law that requires streaming platforms to offer several free channels, some of which are considered to be government propaganda outlets, from the beginning of March.

The US-based platform had already halted its acquisitions in Russia earlier this week, as well as its production of original programs.When contacted by AFP, Netflix did not immediately respond.Netflix is the world's leading streaming platform, with 221.8 million subscribers at the end of 2021.But it is a minor player in Russia, where it has fewer than one million subscribers, according to The Wall Street Journal.On Monday, Netflix told the website Vulture that it did not intend to comply with a Russian law that requires streaming platforms to offer several free channels, some of which are considered to be government propaganda outlets, from the beginning of March.


PARIS: Ukraine has succeeded in dominating social media in the first days since the Russian invasion, in an intensifying information war with Moscow that Kyiv so far appears to be winning, analysts say.
Even as President Volodymyr Zelensky remains bunkered down in Kyiv amid heavy bombardment and the fear of assassination, his government has forced an all-out assault on social media to win supporters for their cause.
Zelensky's daily video addresses, usually published with English subtitles, have become viral sensations, while the defence and foreign ministries tout the military resistance of Ukraine in snazzy graphics.
Meanwhile, Ukrainians have posted videos showing the success of their forces that have become viral trends, including a Ukrainian missile shooting down a Russian helicopter and a Ukrainian farmer towing away captured Russian military hardware on his tractor.
Self-shot videos of Ukrainians sobbing amid the ruins of their towns after Russia stepped up bombardments have also gripped people around the world.
More unverifiable viral claims have included the so-called "ghost of Kyiv", a flying ace said to have downed a dozen Russian warplanes, or the Kyiv woman who purportedly knocked out a Russian drone with a jar of pickled cucumbers.
"In the first phase of the conflict, in terms of international opinion, the Ukrainians are clearly ahead in information," said Baptiste Robert, founder of Predicta Lab, a French company fighting disinformation.
"The most impressive thing is that it is organic," he said. "There is a real desire of the Ukrainians to document this war. When something happens, they pull out their phones."
- 'Readjusting and trying again' -
Robert said the majority of pro-Ukraine videos doing the rounds on Twitter are genuine, but there have been claims which subsequent fact-checking proved to be exaggerated.
In the early stages of the war, Kyiv hailed as heroes 13 border guards who it said lost their lives defending a tiny Black Sea island after swearing at the Russian forces over the radio.
They had in fact all survived, as the Ukrainian authorities later acknowledged. Ukraine's embassy in Paris denies any deliberate attempt to mislead, saying "we don't do fake news".
Russia, accused of spreading disinformation in the 2016 US election to weigh the balance in favour of Donald Trump, is seen as a past master of such tactics.
But here, the balance is weighed against Moscow. In addition to being deeply unpopular in the West, the initial phase of the war has been far from successful for the Kremlin, according to independent observers.
"I can see them (the Russians) readjusting, refitting, and trying again" on the information front, said Emily Harding, deputy director and senior fellow in the international security programme at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.
"But it will still take a little while to get things running."
She said she expected Russia to "push a lot of disinformation into the ecosystem about how the war is going, showing Ukrainian troops supposedly surrendering".
- 'Many Russians buy the narrative' -
However, Russia does not seem hugely concerned about public opinion outside the country, with efforts focused on keeping domestic support behind President Vladimir Putin.
To this end, Russia in the last days shut down the final bastions of free speech media in the country, blocked Facebook and restricted access to Twitter.
"It is true that they (the Ukrainians) are winning, but at the end of the day, the audience Putin cares most about is what his own people think about him," said Darren Linvill, lead researcher at the Media forensic lab of Clemson University in the United States.
"I think many, many Russians buy the narrative."
He added: "For every narrative which is pro-Ukrainian, such as stories about Russian soldiers surrendering without fighting and Ukrainian heroes being lauded for their bravery, you see the same thing in Russia, in the conversation among nationalists, for their own side."
With Ukrainian resistance forcing Moscow into a much longer war than the Kremlin wanted, a new phase in the information war is likely to open up.
If more Ukrainian cities fall to Russian forces, "there will be a new information war between those areas still resisting and the counter-information that the Russians are imposing," said Robert.

PARIS: Ukraine has succeeded in dominating social media in the first days since the Russian invasion, in an intensifying information war with Moscow that Kyiv so far appears to be winning, analysts say.Meanwhile, Ukrainians have posted videos showing the success of their forces that have become viral trends, including a Ukrainian missile shooting down a Russian helicopter and a Ukrainian farmer towing away captured Russian military hardware on his tractor."The most impressive thing is that it is organic," he said."There is a real desire of the Ukrainians to document this war.When something happens, they pull out their phones."- 'Readjusting and trying again' -
Robert said the majority of pro-Ukraine videos doing the rounds on Twitter are genuine, but there have been claims which subsequent fact-checking proved to be exaggerated.In the early stages of the war, Kyiv hailed as heroes 13 border guards who it said lost their lives defending a tiny Black Sea island after swearing at the Russian forces over the radio.They had in fact all survived, as the Ukrainian authorities later acknowledged.Ukraine's embassy in Paris denies any deliberate attempt to mislead, saying "we don't do fake news".But here, the balance is weighed against Moscow.In addition to being deeply unpopular in the West, the initial phase of the war has been far from successful for the Kremlin, according to independent observers."I can see them (the Russians) readjusting, refitting, and trying again" on the information front, said Emily Harding, deputy director and senior fellow in the international security programme at the Center for Strategic and International Studies."But it will still take a little while to get things running."She said she expected Russia to "push a lot of disinformation into the ecosystem about how the war is going, showing Ukrainian troops supposedly surrendering".- 'Many Russians buy the narrative' -
However, Russia does not seem hugely concerned about public opinion outside the country, with efforts focused on keeping domestic support behind President Vladimir Putin."I think many, many Russians buy the narrative."With Ukrainian resistance forcing Moscow into a much longer war than the Kremlin wanted, a new phase in the information war is likely to open up.


 
KABUL: The Taliban ordered a ban against video-sharing app TikTok and the survival-shooter PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds (PUBG) game on Thursday, insisting they were leading Afghanistan's youth astray.
The phone apps are popular among Afghans, who have been left with few outlets for entertainment since the group returned to power last year and banned music, movies, and television soaps.
The apps "made the young generation go astray", the cabinet said in a statement, adding the telecommunications ministry had been ordered to shut them down.
It also directed the ministry to stop TV channels from showing "immoral material", although little is being broadcast beyond news and religious content.
Despite promising a softer version of the rule that characterised their first stint in power from 1996 to 2001, the Taliban have slowly introduced suffocating restrictions on social life — particularly for women.
Most secondary schools for girls remain shuttered, and women are barred from many government jobs and travelling abroad — or even between cities — unless accompanied by an adult male relative.
The previous government of now-ousted president Ashraf Ghani had tried to ban PUBG — a battle royale first-person shooter game that is reminiscent of the book and film series "The Hunger Games".
Just over 9 million people have access to the internet across Afghanistan, a country of around 38 million people, according to figures published in January from DataReportal, an independent data collector.
There are around 4 million social media users, with Facebook being the most popular.
Chinese-owned TikTok has been shut down twice before in neighbouring Pakistan because of alleged "indecent" content.
During their previous regime, the Taliban's feared religious police banned recreational activities such as kite flying and pigeon racing.

 
KABUL: The Taliban ordered a ban against video-sharing app TikTok and the survival-shooter PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds (PUBG) game on Thursday, insisting they were leading Afghanistan's youth astray.It also directed the ministry to stop TV channels from showing "immoral material", although little is being broadcast beyond news and religious content.Despite promising a softer version of the rule that characterised their first stint in power from 1996 to 2001, the Taliban have slowly introduced suffocating restrictions on social life — particularly for women.The previous government of now-ousted president Ashraf Ghani had tried to ban PUBG — a battle royale first-person shooter game that is reminiscent of the book and film series "The Hunger Games".There are around 4 million social media users, with Facebook being the most popular.Chinese-owned TikTok has been shut down twice before in neighbouring Pakistan because of alleged "indecent" content.During their previous regime, the Taliban's feared religious police banned recreational activities such as kite flying and pigeon racing.


Honda Motor plans to build millions of electric vehicles (EV) by 2030 using three new dedicated platforms, with one to be jointly developed with US partner General Motors, a top executive at the Japanese automaker said.
Shinji Aoyama, Honda's global head of electrification, told Reuters on Thursday the firm will introduce an electric mini commercial vehicle in Japan in 2024, built on a new small EV platform. This will be followed by a full-size electric model in North America in 2026, on a new large platform.
Both platforms will be used for other models.
Speaking in a video call, Aoyama said a third platform, which he described as "medium-size", will be shared with General Motors starting in 2027.
The two companies in early April said they would jointly develop "affordable electric vehicles" for global markets, but released few other details.
"Whether they will be based on Honda's architecture or on GM's platform has not been decided," Aoyama said.
"We have not decided which plants (or) what will be produced," he added. "But we are going to share the bill of process" for manufacturing "to enable the cars to be produced at either" Honda or GM plants.
GM is building two premium electric SUVs for Honda in North America, starting in 2024, based on the dedicated EV platform that underpins GM's Cadillac Lyriq. 
Aoyama said Honda has agreed to use GM's next-generation Ultium battery, though the specifications have not been finalized. But the Japanese automaker has no plans to participate in GM's Ultium battery joint venture with South Korea's LG Energy Solution, he said.
Honda has said it plans to build two million electric vehicles globally by 2030, including the mid-size models being developed with GM.
Aoyoma said Honda is targeting North American production of 750,000-800,000 electric vehicles in 2030, and about the same in China, with another 400,000-500,000 in Japan and other markets.

Honda Motor plans to build millions of electric vehicles (EV) by 2030 using three new dedicated platforms, with one to be jointly developed with US partner General Motors, a top executive at the Japanese automaker said.This will be followed by a full-size electric model in North America in 2026, on a new large platform.Both platforms will be used for other models.Speaking in a video call, Aoyama said a third platform, which he described as "medium-size", will be shared with General Motors starting in 2027."Whether they will be based on Honda's architecture or on GM's platform has not been decided," Aoyama said."We have not decided which plants (or) what will be produced," he added."But we are going to share the bill of process" for manufacturing "to enable the cars to be produced at either" Honda or GM plants.GM is building two premium electric SUVs for Honda in North America, starting in 2024, based on the dedicated EV platform that underpins GM's Cadillac Lyriq.But the Japanese automaker has no plans to participate in GM's Ultium battery joint venture with South Korea's LG Energy Solution, he said.


The world’s leading short-form video platform TikTok has removed more than 6.5 million videos in Pakistan, making it the third-ranked country in the world for the largest number of videos taken down between October 1, 2021, to December 30, 2021. 
According to the Community Guidelines Enforcement Report Q4 2021, the video application removed 6,563,594 Pakistani videos. Meanwhile, 85,794,222 videos were removed globally in the fourth quarter of 2021 to tackle harassment and other negative behaviour policies.
Removing content at zero views improved by 14.7% for harassment and bullying content, 10.9% for hateful behaviour, 16.2% for violent extremism, and 7.7% for dangerous acts.
To date, the steadfast progress on removing content that violates the community guidelines prior to receiving any views improved by 14.7% for harassment and bullying content, 10.9% for hateful behaviour, 16.2% for violent extremism, and 7.7% for dangerous acts.
A TikTok official said: “At TikTok, we believe our community should be built on a foundation of respect, kindness, and understanding. To help people forge positive digital connections in line with our rules for appropriate behaviour, we strive to empower our users to stay in control of their interactions with others on TikTok. 
There's no finish line when it comes to keeping people safe, and our latest report and continued safety improvements reflect our ongoing commitment to the well-being of our community.”
Alongside the platform’s work to proactively remove abusive and hateful content or behaviour that violates community guidelines, it is exploring new ways to help everyone feel more in control over comments through authentic engagement. This spans testing ways in which users can identify comments they believe to be irrelevant or inappropriate, such as through disliking comments. 
The community feedback collated will add to the range of factors already in use to help keep the comment section consistently relevant and a place for genuine engagement. In addition to this, to avoid demoralising creators, only the person who registered a dislike on a comment will be able to see that they have done so.
To further streamline finding and using the plethora of built-in safety tools offered, TikTok is experimenting with safety reminders that will guide creators to comment filtering and bulk block and delete options. The reminders will be displayed to creators whose videos appear to be receiving a high proportion of negative comments. 
In parallel the platform will continue to remove comments that violate its stringent community guidelines, building on the already available tools such as the ability to filter comments on content, delete, and report multiple comments at once. 

The world’s leading short-form video platform TikTok has removed more than 6.5 million videos in Pakistan, making it the third-ranked country in the world for the largest number of videos taken down between October 1, 2021, to December 30, 2021.Meanwhile, 85,794,222 videos were removed globally in the fourth quarter of 2021 to tackle harassment and other negative behaviour policies.Removing content at zero views improved by 14.7% for harassment and bullying content, 10.9% for hateful behaviour, 16.2% for violent extremism, and 7.7% for dangerous acts.A TikTok official said: “At TikTok, we believe our community should be built on a foundation of respect, kindness, and understanding.To help people forge positive digital connections in line with our rules for appropriate behaviour, we strive to empower our users to stay in control of their interactions with others on TikTok.There's no finish line when it comes to keeping people safe, and our latest report and continued safety improvements reflect our ongoing commitment to the well-being of our community.”
Alongside the platform’s work to proactively remove abusive and hateful content or behaviour that violates community guidelines, it is exploring new ways to help everyone feel more in control over comments through authentic engagement.This spans testing ways in which users can identify comments they believe to be irrelevant or inappropriate, such as through disliking comments.In addition to this, to avoid demoralising creators, only the person who registered a dislike on a comment will be able to see that they have done so.The reminders will be displayed to creators whose videos appear to be receiving a high proportion of negative comments.


The world's largest cryptocurrency exchange is deactivating the accounts of its major clients in Russia, it said on Thursday, cutting back its services in the country in line with European Union sanctions.
Binance told users that Russian nationals and people living in the country, as well as companies based there, that hold crypto worth over 10,000 euros ($10,900), would be banned from making new deposits or trading.
Affected clients would however be able to withdraw funds, it said.
Accounts for Russia-linked users that have completed address checks and hold crypto worth less than 10,000 euros would remain active, Binance added.
In its fifth package of sanctions on Russia, the EU this month targeted digital wallets used to store, send, receive and spend cryptocurrencies, part of broader efforts to close potential loopholes that could allow Russians to move money abroad. read more
Binance, along with major US exchanges Coinbase Global and Kraken, had rejected calls from Kyiv for a total ban on Russian users after President Vladimir Putin ordered the invasion of Ukraine, which Moscow calls a "special operation" to demilitarise and "denazify" the country.
Binance said in March it would not "unilaterally freeze millions of innocent users' accounts", but that it would ensure compliance with sanctions.
It also said last month that cardholders of Russian banks subject to sanctions would not be able to use the cards on their platform and confirmed that individuals in the same category had had their access restricted. read more

The world's largest cryptocurrency exchange is deactivating the accounts of its major clients in Russia, it said on Thursday, cutting back its services in the country in line with European Union sanctions.Binance told users that Russian nationals and people living in the country, as well as companies based there, that hold crypto worth over 10,000 euros ($10,900), would be banned from making new deposits or trading.Affected clients would however be able to withdraw funds, it said.read more
Binance, along with major US exchanges Coinbase Global and Kraken, had rejected calls from Kyiv for a total ban on Russian users after President Vladimir Putin ordered the invasion of Ukraine, which Moscow calls a "special operation" to demilitarise and "denazify" the country.Binance said in March it would not "unilaterally freeze millions of innocent users' accounts", but that it would ensure compliance with sanctions.read more


Notifying the slow speed of internet across Pakistan on Tuesday, the PTA had said that a power reconfiguration activity on a section of international submarine cable, SMW4, had to be undertaken during certain hours on Wednesday.
However, the authority has now announced that the power reconfiguration activity has been completed. It said that the task was finished at around 3am on Thursday as per schedule.
The PTA said it was a routine scheduled maintenance activity. 

Notifying the slow speed of internet across Pakistan on Tuesday, the PTA had said that a power reconfiguration activity on a section of international submarine cable, SMW4, had to be undertaken during certain hours on Wednesday.It said that the task was finished at around 3am on Thursday as per schedule.The PTA said it was a routine scheduled maintenance activity.


 
Billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk tweeted a series of dashes for a missing word followed by "is the Night", days after he offered to buy Twitter for $43 billion.
The offer from Musk, who has hinted at the possibility of a hostile bid, has prompted the social media company to adopt a "poison pill" to protect itself.
Musk, who is also the chief executive of electric-vehicle maker Tesla, on Monday tweeted "Love Me Tender", an Elvis Presley song, after Twitter opted for a plan to sell shares at a discount to prevent any attempt by shareholders to amass a stake of more than 15%. Musk currently has a 9.1% stake.
The New York Post on Tuesday reported Musk was willing to invest between $10 billion and $15 billion of his own money to take Twitter private, citing two sources familiar with the matter.
The billionaire, who is Twitter's second-biggest shareholder, is planning to launch a tender offer in about 10 days and has tapped Morgan Stanley to raise another $10 billion in debt, according to the report.
Twitter declined to comment. Tesla did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment from Musk.
More private-equity firms have expressed interest in participating in a deal for Twitter, people familiar with the matter told Reuters on Monday without naming the firm.
The interest emerged after Thoma Bravo, a technology-focused private-equity firm, contacted the social media platform last week to explore a buyout that would challenge Musk's offer.
Many investors, analysts and investment bankers expect Twitter's board to reject Musk's offer in the coming days, saying it is inadequate.

The offer from Musk, who has hinted at the possibility of a hostile bid, has prompted the social media company to adopt a "poison pill" to protect itself.Musk currently has a 9.1% stake.The New York Post on Tuesday reported Musk was willing to invest between $10 billion and $15 billion of his own money to take Twitter private, citing two sources familiar with the matter.Twitter declined to comment.Tesla did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment from Musk.More private-equity firms have expressed interest in participating in a deal for Twitter, people familiar with the matter told Reuters on Monday without naming the firm.Many investors, analysts and investment bankers expect Twitter's board to reject Musk's offer in the coming days, saying it is inadequate.


Japanese researchers have developed computerised chopsticks that enhance salty tastes, potentially helping those who need to reduce sodium in their diets.
Co-developed by Meiji University professor Homei Miyashita and beverage maker Kirin Holdings Co., the chopsticks enhance tastes using electrical stimulation and a mini-computer worn on a wristband.
The device uses a weak electrical current to transmit sodium ions from food, through the chopsticks, to the mouth where they create a sense of saltiness, said Miyashita.
"As a result, the salty taste enhances 1.5 times," he said.
Miyashita and his lab have explored various ways that technology can interact with and stimulate human sensory experiences. He's also developed a lickable TV screen that can imitate various food flavours.
Excess sodium intake is related to an increased incidence of high blood pressure, strokes and other ailments.
"To prevent these diseases, we need to reduce the amount of salt we take," said Kirin researcher Ai Sato.
"If we try to avoid taking less salt in a conventional way, we would need to endure the pain of cutting our favourite food from our diet, or endure eating bland food."
Miyashita and Kirin are refining their chopsticks prototype and hope to commercialise them as early as next year.

Co-developed by Meiji University professor Homei Miyashita and beverage maker Kirin Holdings Co., the chopsticks enhance tastes using electrical stimulation and a mini-computer worn on a wristband."As a result, the salty taste enhances 1.5 times," he said.Miyashita and his lab have explored various ways that technology can interact with and stimulate human sensory experiences.He's also developed a lickable TV screen that can imitate various food flavours."To prevent these diseases, we need to reduce the amount of salt we take," said Kirin researcher Ai Sato.Miyashita and Kirin are refining their chopsticks prototype and hope to commercialise them as early as next year.


 
Netflix shares lost more than a quarter of their value in premarket trading on Wednesday after the company reported its first drop in subscribers in a decade, leaving Wall Street questioning its growth in the face of fierce competition and post-pandemic viewer fatigue.
The streaming pioneer's shares fell 27.2% to $253.71 and were headed for their worst day in a decade if the losses hold. At least a dozen analysts rushed to temper their views on a stock that has been a red-hot market performer in the past few years.
"Netflix is a poster child for what happens to growth companies when they lose their growth," said Kim Forrest, chief investment officer at Bokeh Capital Partners in Pittsburgh.
"People buy growth companies because they think their cash flow is going to grow so they're paying ahead for anticipating that. When a stock like this tumbles, people looking for growth back away quickly."
Brokerage J.P.Morgan made the most aggressive move by halving its price target to $305 - well below the stock's median Wall Street target of $400.
"Near-term visibility is limited ... and there's not much to get excited about over the next few months beyond the new, much lower stock price," J.P. Morgan analyst Doug Anmuth said.
Anmuth also slashed his estimate for 2022 net subscriber additions by half to 8 million.
The share slump could erase the stock's gain over the past two years when its business thrived as new customers joined its platform to ride out the lockdowns.
In an effort to calm nerves, company executives told analysts on Tuesday they were looking to offer an advertisement-based tier over the next year or two and promised a crackdown on password sharing - a long-running problem for the service.
"We've got the full kitchen sink ... That might not be enough," said Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell.
Netflix's rivals already have ad-driven versions or are considering one - HBO Max offers an ad-supported subscription, while Disney+ recently said it would launch an ad-based tier.
"We're left with a business in transition. Subscribers have slowed and we struggle to see a return to a pre-COVID net add cadence," Piper Sandler analyst Thomas Champion said in a note.
Demand for fresh and engaging content is also increasing, forcing Netflix and others to think about bigger budgets for production even as costs increase in an inflationary environment.
"Netflix's profitability or business model is not the problem as the figures show, but that some consumers might be cancelling their subscription due to inflation and post-pandemic user fatigue," said Peter Garnry, head of the equity strategy at Saxo Bank.
For the second quarter, Netflix has lined up new seasons of popular shows 'Ozark', 'Stranger Things' and 'Grace and Frankie'.
Needham, however, took a divergent view. The brokerage upgraded its rating on the stock to "hold" from "underperform", encouraged by the company's plans to add a low-priced advertising tier.

 
Netflix shares lost more than a quarter of their value in premarket trading on Wednesday after the company reported its first drop in subscribers in a decade, leaving Wall Street questioning its growth in the face of fierce competition and post-pandemic viewer fatigue.The streaming pioneer's shares fell 27.2% to $253.71 and were headed for their worst day in a decade if the losses hold.At least a dozen analysts rushed to temper their views on a stock that has been a red-hot market performer in the past few years."People buy growth companies because they think their cash flow is going to grow so they're paying ahead for anticipating that.When a stock like this tumbles, people looking for growth back away quickly.""Near-term visibility is limited ... and there's not much to get excited about over the next few months beyond the new, much lower stock price," J.P. Morgan analyst Doug Anmuth said.Anmuth also slashed his estimate for 2022 net subscriber additions by half to 8 million."We've got the full kitchen sink ... That might not be enough," said Russ Mould, investment director at AJ Bell."We're left with a business in transition.For the second quarter, Netflix has lined up new seasons of popular shows 'Ozark', 'Stranger Things' and 'Grace and Frankie'.Needham, however, took a divergent view.The brokerage upgraded its rating on the stock to "hold" from "underperform", encouraged by the company's plans to add a low-priced advertising tier.


Elon Musk is willing to invest between $10 billion and $15 billion of his own money to take Twitter private, the New York Post reported on Tuesday, citing two sources familiar with the matter.
The billionaire, who is Twitter’s second-biggest shareholder with a 9.1% stake, is planning to launch a tender offer in about 10 days and has tapped Morgan Stanley to raise another $10 billion in debt, according to the report.
Musk, who is also Tesla's chief executive, may also be willing to borrow against his current stake if necessary, a move that could possibly raise several billion additional dollars, the New York Post reported.
The social media company adopted a “poison pill” last week to protect itself from Musk’s $43 billion buyout offer.
The interest emerged after Thoma Bravo, a technology-focused PE firm, contacted the social media platform last week to explore a buyout that would challenge Musk’s offer.
Many investors, analysts and investment bankers expect Twitter’s board to reject Musk’s offer in the coming days, saying it is inadequate.
Twitter shares were down 1.6% at $47.69 in afternoon trade, well below Musk’s offer of $54.20.

Musk, who is also Tesla's chief executive, may also be willing to borrow against his current stake if necessary, a move that could possibly raise several billion additional dollars, the New York Post reported.The social media company adopted a “poison pill” last week to protect itself from Musk’s $43 billion buyout offer.The interest emerged after Thoma Bravo, a technology-focused PE firm, contacted the social media platform last week to explore a buyout that would challenge Musk’s offer.Many investors, analysts and investment bankers expect Twitter’s board to reject Musk’s offer in the coming days, saying it is inadequate.Twitter shares were down 1.6% at $47.69 in afternoon trade, well below Musk’s offer of $54.20.


 
The Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) said Tuesday the internet speed in the country will be slow on April 21.
Citing the reason for the slow speed, the PTA, in a statement, said a power reconfiguration activity on a section of international submarine cable, SMW4, will be undertaken from 2-7am. 
Noting that some internet users might experience downgraded speeds, the PTA said alternate measures to provide uninterrupted internet services to users would be taken to meet capacity requirements.
The telecommunication authority added it would work to ensure the internet starts full functionality as quickly as possible.

 
The Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) said Tuesday the internet speed in the country will be slow on April 21.Citing the reason for the slow speed, the PTA, in a statement, said a power reconfiguration activity on a section of international submarine cable, SMW4, will be undertaken from 2-7am.The telecommunication authority added it would work to ensure the internet starts full functionality as quickly as possible.


According to the news tracker, a few days ago, WhatsApp released the new WhatsApp beta for Android 2.22.9.13 update, bringing the ability to certain beta testers to use this feature, and the new 2.22.10.2 beta update helps more users receive the same feature.
Under the new feature, some beta testers can now change the app language by going on WhatsApp Settings > App language.
“A similar feature was already available in certain countries (for example, India) and it was available in WhatsApp Settings > Chats,” it noted, adding that WhatsApp is now releasing the feature regardless of your country and with a new user interface.

According to the news tracker, a few days ago, WhatsApp released the new WhatsApp beta for Android 2.22.9.13 update, bringing the ability to certain beta testers to use this feature, and the new 2.22.10.2 beta update helps more users receive the same feature.Under the new feature, some beta testers can now change the app language by going on WhatsApp Settings > App language.


Many investors, analysts, and investment bankers expect Twitter's board of directors to reject Elon Musk's $43 billion acquisition offer in the coming days as inadequate, but how would the social media company then proceed?
Twitter shares dropped on Thursday after Musk unveiled his offer, as the market deemed it too low and too thin on financing details. Twitter's board is currently evaluating the bid and many investors and analysts say that rejection is likely, barring any changes to the offer from Musk. read more
Buy more time
Agrawal, previously Twitter's chief technology officer, succeeded Jack Dorsey at the helm of the company at the end of November.
Agrawal said in February that he was sticking with the ambitious revenue and user growth goals that the company announced last year, despite investor scepticism that has weighed on Twitter's shares. Those goals include reaching 315 million average 'monetizable' daily active users — registered users that see ads on the platform — and generating at least $7.5 billion of annual revenue by the end of 2023. Twitter posted $5.1 billion of revenue in 2021 and averaged 217 million monetizable daily active users in the fourth quarter of 2021.
Musk has given conflicting signals on what he would do if his bid fails. He said last week that he would reconsider his position as Twitter's shareholder if his offer is rejected. This could indicate that Musk would then sell his more than 9% stake in Twitter and walk away. However, Musk also tweeted last week that Twitter shareholders should get a say on his proposed deal irrespective of what the company's board thinks. This was interpreted by some investors as a hint that he would be willing to press on with a hostile bid.
Try to negotiate with Musk
It is possible that Musk ends up partnering with private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds or other deep-pocketed investors to reduce his own equity check in any transaction. He said last Thursday that he wanted as many existing Twitter shareholders to roll their stakes in a deal as legally possible.
Solicit bids from other parties
One potential bidder, buyout firm Thoma Bravo LP, contacted Twitter last week to express its interest in an offer that would challenge Musk, Reuters reported. Other private equity firms could enter the fray, and some technology and media companies may also choose to brave the regulatory scrutiny that would come with such a deal. read more
It is possible that any alternative transaction that Twitter opts for would not be an acquisition. In 2020, the company agreed to sell $1 billion in convertible bonds to private equity firm Silver Lake, a move that helped it fund a $2 billion share buyback. Twitter could choose to pursue a similar deal now with another party, raising more cash and avoiding an outright sale.

Many investors, analysts, and investment bankers expect Twitter's board of directors to reject Elon Musk's $43 billion acquisition offer in the coming days as inadequate, but how would the social media company then proceed?Twitter shares dropped on Thursday after Musk unveiled his offer, as the market deemed it too low and too thin on financing details.read more
Buy more time
Agrawal, previously Twitter's chief technology officer, succeeded Jack Dorsey at the helm of the company at the end of November.Those goals include reaching 315 million average 'monetizable' daily active users — registered users that see ads on the platform — and generating at least $7.5 billion of annual revenue by the end of 2023.Musk has given conflicting signals on what he would do if his bid fails.He said last week that he would reconsider his position as Twitter's shareholder if his offer is rejected.This could indicate that Musk would then sell his more than 9% stake in Twitter and walk away.However, Musk also tweeted last week that Twitter shareholders should get a say on his proposed deal irrespective of what the company's board thinks.This was interpreted by some investors as a hint that he would be willing to press on with a hostile bid.Try to negotiate with Musk
It is possible that Musk ends up partnering with private equity firms, sovereign wealth funds or other deep-pocketed investors to reduce his own equity check in any transaction.He said last Thursday that he wanted as many existing Twitter shareholders to roll their stakes in a deal as legally possible.read more
It is possible that any alternative transaction that Twitter opts for would not be an acquisition.


Billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk posted a tweet on Saturday saying "Love Me Tender", days after he took aim at Twitter with a $43 billion cash takeover offer.
After Musk's TED talk on Thursday, he hinted at the possibility of a hostile bid in which he would bypass Twitter's board and put the offer directly to its shareholders, tweeting: "It would be utterly indefensible not to put this offer to a shareholder vote". 
Over the weekend Musk, already the San Francisco-based company's second-largest shareholder after amassing a 9.1% stake in the social media firm, tweeted Twitter board's "economic interests are simply not aligned with shareholders".
Twitter on Friday adopted a "poison pill" to limit Musk's ability to raise his stake in the company. 

Billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk posted a tweet on Saturday saying "Love Me Tender", days after he took aim at Twitter with a $43 billion cash takeover offer.After Musk's TED talk on Thursday, he hinted at the possibility of a hostile bid in which he would bypass Twitter's board and put the offer directly to its shareholders, tweeting: "It would be utterly indefensible not to put this offer to a shareholder vote".Twitter on Friday adopted a "poison pill" to limit Musk's ability to raise his stake in the company.


The rumours about Apple Pencil have been in the air for quite some time. Every time an iPhone is about to launch, leaks come up with such rumours. These rumours had especially intensified when iPhone 11 was launched. However, none of these features was seen in any of the phones.
There have been rumours about iPhone Flip as well. Due to the Samsung and Apple competition, leaks often spread false rumours.
This is also because iPhone has four models only, meanwhile, Samsung has multiple ranges like the Galaxy A, J, S, and Z. Each of these has many phones which can be alternatives if one does not want a stylus.
Maybe with time the stylus will become more popular and become part of the iPhone family. However, iPhone still might take time because it does not invent devices, just reforms and refines them. To adjust a stylus and create space for it can take a few years.
It could be that the tablet Apple Pencil becomes compatible with the phone. This will also bring multi-device functionality.
However, none of this can happen anytime soon.

These rumours had especially intensified when iPhone 11 was launched.However, none of these features was seen in any of the phones.There have been rumours about iPhone Flip as well.Due to the Samsung and Apple competition, leaks often spread false rumours.This is also because iPhone has four models only, meanwhile, Samsung has multiple ranges like the Galaxy A, J, S, and Z.Each of these has many phones which can be alternatives if one does not want a stylus.To adjust a stylus and create space for it can take a few years.It could be that the tablet Apple Pencil becomes compatible with the phone.This will also bring multi-device functionality.


Initially, some were not up for the idea. 
“Initially, I hated it and I was absolutely furious,” Michael “The Fierce Diva” Reynolds, a Facebook Gaming streamer, said in an interview.
A Twitter streamer, Ali SypherPK Hassan, said, “I thought I was going to hate it. I thought maybe I would make a couple of videos about it and then move back to the usual building mode."
Later, however, most people wrapped their heads around the idea. Not only have the players become comfortable with it, but those that had quit Fortnite have started coming back to it. A few examples include DrLupo, TimTheTatman, Nickmercs, and Tfue.
Reynolds even pointed out how the game had become easier to play. "It’s easy to move around the map and pick up weapons too," he said.
“I think Fortnite is showing the industry that it does not need building to be as exciting as it once was,” he added.
Hassan explained that even though Building is what initially made Fortnite successful, the game had come a long way with its collaborations with Marvel and DC.
Hassan also mentioned that the viewership on the streams remained unaffected. “My chat is really enjoying Zero Build and our viewership is besting even our recent spikes,” he said. “Fortnite with Zero Build might not be at its previous peak, but it sure feels like we’re getting there.”

Initially, some were not up for the idea.A Twitter streamer, Ali SypherPK Hassan, said, “I thought I was going to hate it.Later, however, most people wrapped their heads around the idea.Not only have the players become comfortable with it, but those that had quit Fortnite have started coming back to it.A few examples include DrLupo, TimTheTatman, Nickmercs, and Tfue.Reynolds even pointed out how the game had become easier to play."It’s easy to move around the map and pick up weapons too," he said.Hassan explained that even though Building is what initially made Fortnite successful, the game had come a long way with its collaborations with Marvel and DC.Hassan also mentioned that the viewership on the streams remained unaffected.


